ALREADY.
WELCOME TO THE MAIN SEGMENT.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE REGULAR
MEETINGS AT REPLANNING MISSION
FOR DETAILED INFORMATION PLEASE
LOOK AT THE AGENDA THAT'S
PROVIDED.
MR. KELLY, WILL YOU CALL THE
ROLL COMMISSIONER AND GIVE
RANDALL PRESENT COMMISSIONER
EVANS HERE COMMISSIONER SILVER
HAIR COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE,
COMMISSIONER DISH HERE SHORTLY
HERE COMMISSIONER CLARK
COMMISSIONER WHICH HERE I HAVE
A COMMENT.
THANK YOU.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO THE APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA ITEM NUMBER
THREE.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION?
COMMISSIONER LEE AND
COMMISSIONER MILLS, ANY
DISCUSSION NON ALL OF THOSE IN
FAVOR SAY AY AY MOTION PASSES
ALREADY MINUTES THE PREVIOUS
MEETING WE HAVE APRIL 18TH FROM
TWENTY TWENTY THREE.
MAY I HAVE SOMEBODY MOVE THAT
COMMISSIONER MILLS SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WIRCH ANY
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES.
OK ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE
SAY I I OK MOTION PASSES ALL
RIGHTY WE ARE ON TO ITEM FIVE
WHICH IS REPORTS FROM
ADMINISTRATION CITY COUNCIL
PLANNING MANAGER PLANNING
COMMISSION OFFICERS.
WE WILL START WITH YOU.
I COULDN'T FIND ANYTHING THAT
WAS REALLY OF DIRECT INTEREST
TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
YOU MIGHT BE INTERESTED TO KNOW
THAT WE DID VOTE TO DISSOLVE
THE BROWNFIELDS PLAN REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
OK, LET'S SEE YOUR STAFF REPORT
.
NO REPORT FROM THE REPORT STILL
FINALIZING YOUR WORK SESSION
AGENDA FOR NEXT WEEK SO WE'LL
BE A SURPRISE.
OK, WE'LL BE WAITING WITH BATED
BREATH I'M SURE THAT I SEE
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS FOR
REPORTS.
YEP.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT THE
ORDINANCE REVISIONS COMMITTEE
MET LAST WEEK AND DISCUSSED
REVISIONS TO THE ORDINANCE
SURROUNDING CLUBS, CONFLICTING
LAND USE BUFFERS AND THE
COMMISSION WILL BE SEEING SOME
PROPOSED REVISIONS COMING TO
YOU IN THE NEAR FUTURE.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY OTHER COMMITTEE LIAISON'S
REPS KNOW?
ALL RIGHT.
OK, WELL WE WILL MOVE THEN ON
TO OUR OPENING PUBLIC COMMENT
WHICH IS ITEM NUMBER SIX.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED ON THE PUBLIC AGENDA
.
I WILL CALL FIRST ON PEOPLE WHO
ARE IN THE ROOM AND THEN WE'LL
MOVE TO REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK DURING THIS PUBLIC
HEARING REMOTELY PRESS OUR NINE
PUSING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE IF YOU
INCLUDE THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND INTERMEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TO SIX AND TO UNMUTED
PRESS STAR SIX CALLERS THAT
HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
THOSE ARE ACCESSING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUND
SO THAT WE HEAR YOU CLEARLY.
IS THERE ANYBODY THAT WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK WHO IS PRESENT
NOT LOOKING LIKE ANYBODY SO WE
WILL ANYBODY IN THE QUEUE
REMOTELY WE DO CALL WITH A
PHONE NUMBER AND WITH FIVE
THREE FOUR YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ALL NOW I'LL BEGIN
WITH WHAT THE THE THE
RECOGNITION AND SUPPORT THAT
CONNECTION OF INSTRUCTION
.
AND NAGAVALLI, WHAT ARE THE
ACTS THAT I DID IN THAT
CAPACITY AND WE HAVE
IMPLEMENTED THAT IN THE HOUSING
PROGRAM DOING ENERGY-EFFICIENCY
IN ANTICIPATION.
WE'VE BEEN DOING THINGS LIKE
INVESTING IN UPGRADING AND
SWAPPING OUT OF GAS PRIOR TO
GOT BUILT AND WE FELT THAT THE
PART ANY OF US WITH THE HELP
OF THE SCHOOL OR THE WE WE AND
WE'LL BE DOING MORE WE INTEND
TO DO WE SUPPORT REGULATION
THAT WE HOPE WILL PUT
REGULATION AND THEY DO
INNOVATION AS WELL ACCORDING TO
NEW PROJECTS THAT ARE PUT IT
MAKE IT ALL THAT FOR A TWENTY
TWO I'M OKAY WITH THAT.
I DID KNOW NOTHING ABOUT IT.
THEY HAVE A PLAN FOR WHAT THEY
CALL THE VILLAGE AND IT'S A
REALLY WELL IS CORRECT.
I PARTICIPATED IN THAT ABOUT
TWENTY AND I'D LIKE TO JAVELIN
AND I THINK THAT WE DID AN
EXCELLENT JOB AND WE GOT A VERY
GOOD COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR
LOCAL WITH THE SITE AT
MORNINGSIDE DEVELOPMENT.
IT'S ABOUT ONE THIRD OF THE FLY
WITH THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN DID
A GOOD JOB.
WE DIDN'T GET ANY THE VILLAGE
IDIOT IN THE MORNING MY PROJECT
QUOTE IS TO DEFEND SECOND
FINGER WITH A FACTORY.
IS IT NOW AND THEN END QUOTE.
NOW WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NOT
LATER BUT I DO MENTION THAT
BROUGHT IN WITH A PORTABLE YOU
AND WE KNOW THAT HE'D ALREADY
BY THE END OF THE HAVE COME IN
AND PROVIDE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AT THE TIME OF THE LOAN
APPLICATION IT WAS SAID THAT
MAYBE WE'RE THINKING THAT WHAT
YOU GAVE IN YOUR TIME IS UP MR.
STOLLBERG, I THANK ANYBODY ELSE
IN THE QUEUE.
NO OTHER INTEREST.
OK, WE WILL MOVE ON ITEM NUMBER
SEVEN WHICH ARE PUBLIC HEARINGS
FOR THE NEXT MEETING ON MAY
16TH.
THE TWO NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS
SCHEDULED FOR THE MAY 16TH
MEETING.
I WOULD NOTE THAT THAT I KNOW
THAT IT'S MAY 16TH ONE IS THE
CITY THEN PETITION THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN TO APPROVE THE
ANNEXATION OF A NUMBER
OF TOWNSHIP ISLAND PARCELS IN
ANOTHER TOWNSHIP, THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN LICENSING AND
REGULATORY AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT
RECENTLY APPROVED ANNEXATION
OF ELEVEN PARCELS TO SEVEN
SEVEN FIVE NEWPORT TWO SEVEN
THREE SEVEN NEWPORT TWO FOUR
SIX SIX NEWPORT TWO THREE ONE
EIGHT NEWPORT TWO THREE FIVE
FOUR NEWPORT TWO ONE ZERO EIGHT
NEWPORT ONE THREE SEVEN FIVE
BIRD ONE FOUR TWO NUMBER TWO
ONE ONE FOUR VICTORIOUS CIRCLE
TWO ONE ONE EIGHT VICTORIOUS
CIRCLE AND TWO ONE TWO SIX
VICTORIOUS CIRCLE THE CITY THAT
NUMBER IS NOW THE SHADE THE
REZONING OF THESE PARCELS TWO
ARE ONE A SINGLE FAMILY
DETACHED ZONING DISTRICT.
THE SECOND PUBLIC HEARING IS
FOR S TOWN REZONING SITE
PLANNING STREET VACATION AT
SIXTY ONE SOUTH STATE STREET.
THIS IS A PROJECT WITH THREE
PETITIONS TO DEVELOP BLOCK
SURROUNDED BY STATE WIDE
STREET, HENRY STREET AND
STIMSON'S STREET.
A PETITION ARIZONA BLOCK OF TEN
PARCELS FROM OUR FORESE TO SEE
ONE ARE WITH CONDITIONS WITH AN
OFFER TO REDUCE THE MAXIMUM
HEIGHT LIMIT TO ONE HUNDRED
FEET SET A MAXIMUM VEHICLE
PARKING LIMIT OF POINT TO FIVE
SPACES PER DWELLING UNIT AND
SET MINIMUM ACTIVE OPEN SPACE
REQUIREMENT OF FIFTY SQUARE
FEET PER DWELLING UNIT.
SECOND, A SITE PLAN FOR CITY
COUNCIL APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT A
TWO HUNDRED AND TWENTY THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT MIXED USE BUILDING
WITH GROUND FLOOR RETAIL OFFICE
AND CHILD CARE SPACE AND
APPROXIMATELY TWO HUNDRED AND
FIFTEEN APARTMENTS.
AND THIRD A PETITION TO VACATE
THE PUBLIC ALLEY IN THE BLOCK
SITE.
THE SITE INCLUDES ADDRESSES
SIXTY ONE SOUTH STATE.
SIXTY FIVE SOUTH STATE.
SIXTY SEVEN SOUTH STATE.
SIXTY NINE STATE.
SIXTEEN ELEVEN SOUTH STATE.
SIXTY SIX WHITE SIXTY NO WAIT
WAIT 10 WAIT SIX TWELVE AND
SEVEN 14 HENRY THE SITE IS ONE
POINT SEVEN ACRES CURRENTLY
ZONED FOR THANK YOU FOR THAT
PLETHORA OF ADDRESSES THAT WE
GOT WITH BOTH OF THEM.
I'M SURE WE WILL ALL REMEMBER
THAT FOR NEXT TIME SO WE ARE ON
TO ITEM NUMBER EIGHTY WHICH IS
NINE NINE NINE MAIDEN LANE SITE
PLAN AND REZONING FOR CITY
COUNCIL APPROVAL.
THIS IS A PROJECT INCLUDING A
REZONING PETITION TO AMEND THE
CONDITIONS OF THE C ONE ACRE
CAMPUS BUSINESS RESIDENTIAL
WITH CONDITION ZONING
DESIGNATION BY REMOVING THE
CONDITION THAT THE PROPERTY
SHALL ONLY BE DEVELOPED AS THE
ONE ONE FOUR OH BROADWAY PLAN
PROJECTS SITE PLAN AS MAY BE
ADMINISTRATIVELY AMENDED
BECAUSE TWO THE THREE APPROVED
BUILDINGS HAVE BEEN CONSTRUCTED
AND A SITE PLAN APPLICATION TO
CONSTRUCT A ONE HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED AND
TWENTY TWO HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT
SEVEN STOREY RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING ON THE PARCEL B AT THE
BEEKMAN ON BROADWAY DEVELOPMENT
REPLACING THE PREVIOUSLY
APPROVED BUILDING WITH SIMILAR
DIMENSIONS IN THIS LOCATION
ZONING DISTRICT AND DEVELOPMENT
SITE ARE SIX POINT FOUR ACRES
BUILDING THE SITE IS ONE POINT
FOUR ACRES.
ADDRESSES INCLUDE ONE ONE OH
ONE TWO OH OH BROADWAY STREET
WITH NINE NINE NINE MAIDEN
LANE.
OK WE GET TO HAVE A PETITION OR
A PRESENTATION FOR UP TO TEN
MINUTES SO YOU ALL CAN STEP UP
TO THE MICROPHONE.
I'M ASSUMING YOU ALL HAVE
WORKED OUT THE DIGITAL
PRESENTATION WELL GOOD EVENING
.
I'M ROD MOOCHIE.
I'M A PRINCIPAL WITH
MORNINGSIDE GROUP AND I'M
JOINED TONIGHT BY MY PARTNER
DAVID STRAUSBERG SEATED TO MY
RIGHT HE'S THE PRESIDENT
OF MORNINGSIDE ALSO VIA ZOOM WE
HAVE THE REST OF OUR CONSULTING
TEAM.
WE HAVE OUR ZONING ATTORNEY BOB
CARSON FROM THE CARSON FISHER
LAW FIRM.
WE HAVE OUR CIVIL ENGINEERING
ENTITLEMENT CONSULTANT.
I'M COVERED WITH MIDWESTERN
CONSULTING.
WE HAVE A TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEER JULIE KRAUL WITH
FLEECE AND VANDENBERGHE AND WE
HAVE OUR PROJECT ARCHITECT ADAM
TUOMO WITH ARCHITECTS AND WE
WOULD BE PLEASED TO ANSWER YOUR
QUESTIONS THIS EVENING.
THANK YOU
ONCE AGAIN NOT
COMPLETELY PREPARED.
THANK YOU.
BEFORE YOU THIS EVENING ARE ARE
ACTUALLY TWO PETITIONS.
LET ME MAKE LOUD ENOUGH BEFORE
YOU ARE ACTUALLY TWO PETITIONS.
ONE IS ELEVEN FORTY BROADWAY
REZONING.
IT'S CONSIDERED A REZONING EVEN
THOUGH THE DESIGNATION ON THE
MAP WILL REMAIN C ONE R WITH
CONDITIONS MORE IN A SECOND AND
THERE IS A FLIGHT PLAN PROJECT
NAMED NINE NINE NINE MAIDEN
LANE SITE IS LOCATED ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF MAIDEN LANE
BETWEEN BROADWAY STREET AND
MILTON COURT.
THERE'S A LOCATION MAP IN THE
STAFF REPORT FOR THE ZONING A
TINY BIT OF BACKGROUND.
THE SITE IS SIX POINT FOUR
ACRES AS MENTIONED IN TWENTY
SEVENTEEN IT WAS ZONED C ONE A
CIGAR WITH CONDITIONS.
THERE ARE THREE CONDITIONS ONE
WE GO THE THERE ARE THREE
CONDITIONS THAT HAVE BEEN
OFFERED, ACCEPTED AND ARE NOW
IN PLACE.
ONE IS AT THE HEIGHT OF ANY
PART OF A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE
ON THE PROPERTY IS A MAXIMUM
OF SEVEN STORIES AND NINETY ONE
FEET WHICH IS FURTHER
RESTRICTED IN THE AREA MOST
CLOSE TO TREVER CREEK FOUR
STORIES AND A MAXIMUM OF SIXTY
FEET SECOND CONDITION IS THE
MAXIMUM HEIGHT LIMITATIONS IN
MORE SPECIFICITY ABOUT THAT IF
THEY INCLUDE ARCHITECTURAL
FEATURES SUCH AS THE PARAPET
WALLS BUT EXCLUDES CERTAIN
OTHER STRUCTURES THERE IS A CAP
ON THAT THE EXCLUDED STRUCTURE
STILL DO NOT EXTEND MORE THAN
TWENTY FEET AND THERE IS
CURRENTLY A CONDITION THAT THE
PROPERTY SHALL ONLY BE
DEVELOPED AS THE ELEVEN FORTY
BROADWAY PLANNED PROJECT SITE
PLAN AS APPROVED BY INNER CITY
COUNCIL ON DECEMBER TWENTY
SEVEN IN DECEMBER 4TH TWENTY
SEVENTEEN AS WELL AS ANY
ADMINISTRATIVE AMENDMENTS TO
THE SITE PLAN THAT RAISE
ADMINISTRATIVE AMENDMENTS IS
THE KEY FOR THIS EVENING.
THE APPLICANT IS IT'S
CONSIDERED A LIKE I SAID IT
MUST BE PROCESSED AS A REZONING
BUT THE REQUEST IS ULTIMATELY
TO STRIKE THE THIRD CONDITION
TO TAKE IT CAN BE EXPLAINED AS
TO REZONE FROM C ONE R WITH
THREE CONDITIONS TO SEE ONE ARE
WITH TWO CONDITIONS.
THE FIRST TWO WOULD REMAIN THE
HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS AND THE
SPECIFICITY ABOUT WHAT'S
INCLUDED IN THE HEIGHT
RESTRICTION BUT THE REQUIREMENT
THAT THE PROPERTY SHALL ONLY BE
DEVELOPED AS THE ORIGINAL
ELEVEN FORTY BROADWAY PLANNED
PROJECT SITE PLAN WITH ANY
ADMINISTRATIVE AMENDMENTS BE
STRUCK.
WHAT IS PROPOSED
FOR
DEVELOPMENT THEN THE SITE PLAN
PETITION THE THE ELEVEN FORTY
BROADWAY ZONING DISTRICT HAS
BEEN DEVELOPED AND HAS THREE
COMPONENTS TO IT.
IT HAS A BUILDING A WHICH IS A
MULTIFAMILY APARTMENT BUILDING
WHICH SURROUNDS LIKE A DONUT A
PARKING STRUCTURE.
IT ALSO HAS A SECOND APARTMENT
BUILDING IN THE C POSITION AND
THEN IT CURRENTLY HAS A VACANT
SITE WHICH HAD AN APPROVED
APARTMENT BUILDING THAT WAS
CONSTRUCTED WITH A SQUARE BASE
AND THEN AN L SHAPED BUILDING
ON TOP OF THAT SQUARE BASE
SQUARE BASE OF PARKING.
THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT IS
SPECIFIC TO THAT BUILDING C IT
WOULD NOT BE A BUILDING WITH A
SQUARE AND AN L SHAPE BUILDING
ON TOP OF IT BUT IT WOULD BE AN
ENTIRELY C OR U SHAPED
BUILDING.
THE DEVELOPMENT WOULD HAVE NO
PARKING OF ITS OWN ON ITS
LITTLE SITE BUT IT IS PART
OF THE LARGER DEVELOPMENT WHICH
HAS ACCESS TO A FOUR HUNDRED
SOME SPACE PARKING STRUCTURE.
NOTABLE FEATURES OF THAT SITE
PLAN ARE THAT IT IS SET BACK A
MINIMUM.
THE PROPOSED BUILDING IS SET
BACK A MINIMUM OF 14 FEET FROM
MAIDEN LANE AND 17 FROM NIELSEN
COURT.
THE INTERNAL STREETS WHICH ARE
CONSIDERED WHICH ARE PRIVATE
STREETS ARE ACTUALLY NOT
MEETING THE DEFINITION OF A
STREET BUT FOR DISCUSSION
PURPOSES LET'S CALL THEM A
STREET.
THEY HAVE BEEN NAMED GORDON
LANE AND CHARLOTTE LANE.
THE PROPOSED BUILDING A SET
BACK 14 FEET FROM THOSE 14 FEET
FROM ONE TWENTY FEET FROM THE
OTHER STANDARD FIVE FOOT WIDE
SIDEWALKS ARE LOCATED IN THE
PUBLIC SIDE AND MAIDEN LANE AND
NEILSON COURT AS WELL AS ON THE
PRIVATE SIDE ADJACENT TO GORDON
AND CHARLOTTE LANES.
THERE'S A CLASS A BICYCLE
PARKING STORAGE AREA INSIDE THE
BUILDING ONE FOR EACH UNIT AND
A FEW ADDITIONAL ONES ARE
PROVIDED OUTSIDE FOR JUST THIS
BUILDING BE SPOT THERE WILL
FIFTEEN NEWS PARKING SPACES
INSTALLED SAME AS ORIGINALLY
PLANNED.
THEY ARE PARALLEL OR
PERPENDICULAR TO THE PRIVATE
STREETS AND THIS MAKES FOR A
TOTAL OF THIRTY SPACES EXTERIOR
SURFACE SPACES AND I WAS WRONG
.
I SAID FOUR HUNDRED IT'S FIVE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY NINE
PARKING SPACES IN THE STRUCTURE
THERE'LL BE TWO EV CHARGERS
INSTALLED WITH THESE NEW SPACES
EXTERIOR ADJACENT TO A BUILDING
ADJACENT TO BUILDING B WE HAVE
REVIEWED THE SITE PLAN FOR THE
STANDARD STANDARD DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS REVIEW AND IT MEETS
ALL OF THE APPLICABLE
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS INCLUDING
THE PROPOSED CONDITIONAL ZONING
STATEMENT OF SECOND AMENDMENT
CONDITIONS IF ACCEPTED THERE
ARE AT THE TIME THE STAFF
REPORT WAS WRITTEN THERE WERE A
FEW COMMENTS OR OUTSTANDING
ISSUES FROM STAFF THERE WAS A
COMMENT PROVIDED BY OUR
SUSTAINABILITY OFFICE, A
COMMENT PROVIDED BY THE PARKS
AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
REGARDING THE PARK'S
CONTRIBUTION REQUESTED INCREASE
TO MATCH THE PROPOSED NUMBER
OF DWELLING UNITS THE APPLICANT
HAS AGREED AND THERE IS A
RESTATEMENT OF THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT ATTACHED THAT WILL BE
FORWARDED TO CITY COUNCIL TO
REFLECT THAT THE TRANSPORTATION
DEPARTMENT UNIT HAD NOT
COMPLETED THE REVIEW AT THE
TIME THE STAFF REPORT WAS
WRITTEN.
VERBAL DISCUSSIONS INDICATED
THAT THE ISSUE WAS RELATED TO
THE VALIDATION OF THE TRAFFIC
IMPACT ANALYSIS.
I KNOW THAT THE APPLICANT HAS
PROVIDED A LETTER JUST TODAY I
WAS NOT ABLE TO CHECK IN WITH
OUR TRANSPORTATION STAFF BUT
THIS PROJECT, THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IS A RECOMMENDING
BODY FOR THIS THIS PROJECT WILL
STILL MOVE ON TO CITY COUNCIL
AND DEPENDING ON THE OUTCOME
THERE IS TIME TO VERIFY THAT
AND SCHEDULE AND KEEP FOLLOWING
THE PROCESS.
THERE REGARDING THE SITE PLAN.
NO, I DIDN'T MEAN THAT
REGARDING THE REZONING OUR
STAFF ANALYSIS OR STAFF OPINION
IS THAT THE SITE IS MOSTLY
DEVELOPED AND SO THE PURPOSE
OF THIS CONDITION HAS LARGELY
BEEN SATISFIED THE CONDITION TO
MATCH THE SITE MATCH THE
DEVELOPMENT WITH THE SITE PLAN
AND THERE DOES NOT SEEM TO BE A
COMPELLING REASON TO TO
CONTINUE THAT CONDITION,
PARTICULARLY THE PROPOSED SITE
PLAN.
THE STYLE IS IN KEEPING THE ALL
THE ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS ARE
IN KEEPING BUT THE CHANGE DID
EXCEED THE ADMINISTRATOR.
WHAT COULD BE APPROVED WITH AN
ADMINISTRATIVE AMENDMENT WHICH
IS NOW CALLED THE FLIGHT PLAN
OR PLANNING COMMISSION I'M
SORRY PLANNING MANAGER APPROVAL
AND WE THINK THAT THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR ANY
DEVELOPMENT IN THE C ONE ARE
DISTRICT SHOULD APPLY WITHOUT
ANY FURTHER MODIFICATION OR OR
CONDITION.
WE ARE RECOMMEND CONDITIONAL
APPROVAL AS A WHOLE OF THE
REZONING AND THE SITE PLAN
SUBJECT TO VERIFYING THOSE
OUTSTANDING STAFF COMMENTS AND
I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS AND I KNOW
THE APPLICANT AND HIS TEAM IS
ALSO HERE AS WELL.
SO WE OFTEN HEAR FROM THE
DEVELOPER FIRST AND THEN FROM
YOU BUT I PRESUME THAT WAS KIND
OF YOUR ANALYSIS THAT I CAN
HEAR ANYTHING ELSE FROM YOU IN
TERMS OF YOUR REPORT.
OK, SO WE STILL HAVE YET TO
HEAR FROM THE DEVELOPER OR NO.
THAT WAS THE EXTENT OF THEIR
PRESENTATION THAT THEY WANT TO
PROVIDE.
THEY'RE AVAILABLE FOR THINGS
LIKE OK, I GET IT OK ALREADY.
OK, SO WE THEN WE'LL MOVE ON TO
THE PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE NINETY NINE
MAIDEN LANE SITE PLAN AND
REZONING FOR CITY COUNCIL
APPROVAL.
WELL FIRST CALL ON PARTICIPANTS
WHO ARE HERE AND THEN REMOTELY
TO SPEAK DURING PUBLIC HEARING
PRESS NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE TO RAISE THE HAND
FEATURE FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
ENTER INTERMEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX TO UNMUTED STAR
SIX CITY STAFF ALSO OUR CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK FOR
EITHER METHOD PLEASE STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
YOU CAN COME ON UP TO THE FRONT
TO STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
AND YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS DON MCCLUSKEY.
I LIVE AT THIRTY SIX PONTIAC
TRAIL AT THE CORNER OF KELLOGG.
I WALKED HERE I GREW UP IN ANN
ARBOR ON THE WEST SIDE AND I
LIVED AWAY FOR HALF A LIFETIME.
I MOVED BACK IN TWENTY TWENTY
AFTER ABOUT TWENTY YEARS AWAY
I'VE LIVED IN SAN FRANCISCO,
WASHINGTON DC AND A VERY LARGE
CITY IN RUSSIA THAT NOBODY HAS
HEARD OF SO I CAN'T SEE COMING
BACK.
BUT THE AREA AROUND ANN ARBOR
HAS FALLEN INTO SIGNIFICANT
SPRAWL AND I ALSO PERHAPS TOO
GENEROUSLY INTERPRET THE
DOWNTOWN THE CURRENT DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AS A RESPONSE TO
THAT TO TRY TO LIMIT THE
FOOTPRINT OF OF OURSELVES ON
THE EARTH, BRING PEOPLE IN,
MAKE IT MORE PEDESTRIAN AND NON
MOTOR DEPENDENT, PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLY, NON MOTOR DEPENDENT
AND I SEE THOSE GOALS DEEPLY
ANN ARBOR AND I APPRECIATE THAT
WHAT I SEE IN THE ACTUAL
DEVELOPMENT AS IT'S UNFOLDING
HOWEVER IS AN ENTRENCHING
OF SUBURBAN SOCIAL ISOLATION.
THERE IS NOT ENOUGH OPPORTUNITY
FOR PEOPLE TO CONGREGATE AND
WITHOUT THE SHOPS AND AND MIXED
USE THAT THE ORIGINAL PLAN
OF THIS DEVELOPMENT PROMISED.
WHAT WE'RE SEEING IS BASICALLY
A PLACE WHERE PEOPLE WILL ONLY
BE ABLE TO GO AND BE ALONE IN
THEIR APARTMENTS.
THE PEOPLE ON THE FIRST FLOOR
WITH A 14 FOOT SETBACK THAT'S
LESS THAN THIS THAT WILL NEVER
BE ABLE TO OPEN THEIR WINDOWS
OR THEIR CURTAINS IN THEIR
APARTMENTS.
I IS TRYING TO WALK UP SWIFT
THE OTHER DAY YESTERDAY WE
ACTUALLY MADE FULL EYE CONTACT
WITH SOMEBODY WHO IS JUST DOING
HOMEWORK ON HIS FLOOR AND
TRYING TO HANG OUT WITH HIS CAT
AND HE WAS REALLY STARTLED BY
THE CLOSENESS OF MY PRESENCE.
THE LITTLE WAREHOUSE SEE THINGS
AT THE POINT OF MAUREEN SWIFT.
SO I STRONGLY ENCOURAGE YOU TO
NOT APPROVE THE RESIDENTIAL
ONLY ASPECT OF THIS PLAN SOCIAL
DYSTOPIA IN THE MAKING IS YOU
MIGHT AS WELL BUILD A WAREHOUSE
TO STORE PEOPLE IN BECAUSE THEY
WILL ONLY BE ENCLOSED IN THEIR
HOMES.
PEOPLE NEED SHOPS.
WE THE RESIDENTS OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE NEED SHOPS, WE NEED CAFES,
WE NEED SIDEWALKS TO INVITE US
TO COME OUT AND CONGREGATE IN
PLACES WHERE WE CAN BE TOGETHER
.
OK, AFTER THE PANDEMIC WE ARE
DEFINITELY KNOWING THAT BEING
TOGETHER IS IMPORTANT AND
ESPECIALLY WITH WITH WORKING
FROM HOME.
I WORK FROM HOME.
I WOULD LOVE FOR THERE TO BE
PLACES FOR ME TO GO WITHOUT MY
CAR WHICH WE ONLY BECAUSE WE
BELIEVE IN NOT CARS SO JUST
PLEASE DON'T APPROVE THIS.
IT'S A BAD IDEA.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SIR.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT THAT WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK TO HI MY NAME IS
STEVE KAPLAN.
I WOULD FOR SIX NORTH DIVISION
COME AND I HAVE SO SOME I PAY
ATTENTION TO DEVELOPMENT IN THE
AREA I PAY ATTENTION TO I HAVE
BEEN INVOLVED IN SOME
DEVELOPMENT IN THE AREA THE
IDEA OF WHAT WE WANT FROM
DEVELOPMENT AND WHAT IT SHOULD
WHAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THAT
DEVELOPMENT TO GET WHAT WE WANT
IS AN ONGOING DISCUSSION WITH
EVERY SINGLE ONE OF THEM AND I
THINK EVERYTHING I JUST HEARD
FROM THE PERSON BEFORE ME I
COULDN'T AGREE MORE WITH I
THINK THAT WE WOULD WE'RE
STRUGGLING WITH A NEED FOR
DENSITY IN THIS TOWN AND
GETTING ROOM FOR PEOPLE TO BE
CLOSER TOGETHER AND ABLE TO
WALK TO THE PLACES WHERE
THEY'RE EMPLOYED SO THAT THEY
DON'T USE CARS AND I THINK
WE'RE DOING A GOOD JOB.
I THINK THIS PARTICULAR ONE
DOES AN EXCELLENT JOB OF THAT.
BUT I ALSO THINK THAT SOME
OF THE OTHER GOALS THAT WE HAVE
ARE FACILITATED BY THESE
DEVELOPMENTS EVEN IF THEY DON'T
INTEGRATE THESE THINGS.
AND WHAT I MEAN BY THAT IS
RETAIL AND COMMUNITY SPACE
DON'T NECESSARILY HAVE TO BE IN
A BUILDING FOR THAT BUILDING TO
HELP FACILITATE THEM.
YOU HAVE TO HAVE A CERTAIN
AMOUNT OF CRITICAL MASS DENSITY
TO BE ABLE TO SUPPORT THE STORE
OR THE RESTAURANT OR THE SHOP
OR THE GATHERING SPACE.
THEY DON'T THEY DON'T SUSTAIN
THEMSELVES OTHERWISE I'VE SEEN
TOO MANY OF THESE WHERE WE WANT
TO HAVE THIS EMPTY SPACE IN THE
BUILDING BECAUSE WE WE ENVISION
WHAT'S GOING TO GO THERE BUT WE
ARE THE ONES THAT ARE GOING TO
OPEN THAT SHOP.
WE ARE THE ONES THAT ARE GOING
TO PAY THE RENT ON THAT AND WE
DON'T HAVE ENOUGH PEOPLE THAT
WILL GO ACTUALLY SIT IN THAT
PLACE AND BUY THE COFFEE OR BUY
A CROISSANT OR DO WHATEVER THEY
DON'T THEY DON'T SUSTAIN
THEMSELVES ESPECIALLY NOW WHEN
THERE'S A DRAMATIC SHIFT IN
WHAT WE'RE DEMANDING FOR RETAIL
AND OFFICE IN ANN ARBOR TO WORK
THAT IN DRAMATIC FLUX.
IT IS IT IT'S AN IT'S UNTENABLE
RISK TO ASK ANY DEVELOPER TO
SAY HEY, JUST SPECULATE ON THIS
EMPTY SPACE.
THERE'S A BUNCH OF IT KIND
OF MORPHING EVERYWHERE IN TOWN
RIGHT NOW WHAT THIS BUILDING
WILL DO, THESE BUILDINGS WILL
DO EVEN WITHOUT A BIG SPACE TO
CONGREGATE IS BRING THE PEOPLE
THAT WILL SUPPORT ANYTHING THAT
COMES NEXT HERE AND THIS PART
OF TOWN AS WELL AS OTHER PARTS
OF TOWN.
THEY ARE ITERATIVELY
DEVELOPMENT AND THIS IS THE
PERFECT FIRST STEP TO THE NEXT
THINGS THAT WE NEED BECAUSE NOW
THOSE PEOPLE ARE THERE TO
ACTUALLY SUPPORT THESE OTHER
THINGS THAT WE WANT THAT I WANT
AS WELL.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
COME ON UP TO THE FRONT
.
TAKE THIS OFF SO YOU CAN HEAR
ME BETTER.
I DON'T HAVE TO DO SOMETHING
WITH THIS FISHERPEOPLE YOU CAN
PROBABLY PUT IT THERE YOU GO
RIGHT NOW THERE IS LITTLE WE
CAN DO TO STOP THIS.
THERE IS GOING TO PAY YOURSELF
.
YES.
I'M SORRY I'M A LITTLE SLOW.
ELEVEN THIRTEEN TWENTY SEVEN
BROADWAY.
THANK YOU.
I KNOW THERE IS LITTLE WE CAN
DO TO STOP THIS THIRD BUILDING
FROM BEING BUILT.
HAVE YOU SEEN THE FIRST TWO
BUILDINGS.
THEY ARE UGLY WITH
CHEAP LOOKING PANELS.
THEY ARE WAY TOO LARGE FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
MOREOVER THEY HAVE RESULTED IN
MANY LOSSES TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD
.
YOU NOW HAVE A WIND TUNNEL ON
BROADWAY AND THE THIRD BUILDING
WILL PROBABLY EXACERBATE THE
WIND TUNNEL AND THE LANE THAT
WAS CAUSED BY THE DIRECTION
OF THE SECOND BUILDING INSTEAD
OF ENJOYING THE SUN AS WE WALK
THERE WE ARE IN SHADOW FOR A
GOOD PART OF THE DAY.
THE VIEW OF THE BROADWAY HILL
IS COMPROMISED AS YOU TRAVEL
FROM DOWNTOWN WE NO LONGER HAVE
A VIEW OF THE RIVER VALLEY AND
THE GREENERY IN THE SKYLINE ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE RIVER
BECAUSE OF THIS BUILDING THESE
BUILDINGS THAT HAVE ALREADY
BEEN BUILT NOT TO MENTION THE
LOSS OF SEEING THE SKY.
IS THIS ALL PETTY?
NO, THESE ARE HUMAN DESIRES TO
SEE THE SKY AND THE LANDSCAPE
AND FEEL THE SUN.
THIS PROJECT HAS CREATED AN
ESTHETIC DESERT IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT IS A SHAME THAT OUR CITY'S
MASTER PLAN DOESN'T PREVENT
THIS KIND OF DEVELOPMENT.
THE HUMOROUS THING IS THAT THE
CITY ALLOWS SUCH THINGS TO BE
BUILT AND THEN ASKS US TO BE
ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT PUBLIC ART
AS IF THAT CAN COMPENSATE US
FOR THE BLIGHT OF HUGE
UNATTRACTIVE DEVELOPMENTS.
ARE THERE CRITICS OF THIS
PROJECT MIGHT URGE YOU TO
INCLUDE MORE AMENITIES BEFORE
GIVING THE FINAL BUILDING YOUR
APPROVAL.
THEY WILL ASK FOR MORE
SO-CALLED AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FOR EXAMPLE AND YOU MIGHT BE
WILLING TO TRY TO PUSH THE
DEVELOPER ON THIS ISSUE.
HOWEVER, THE DAMAGE DONE TO THE
CITY BY THIS DEVELOPMENT CANNOT
BE AMELIORATED BY A TRIFLING
NUMBER OF APARTMENTS THAT MUST
BE RENTED TO PEOPLE WHO EARN
LESS THAN 60 PERCENT OF THE
MEDIAN INCOME.
THOSE AREN'T EVEN POOR PEOPLE.
LIKEWISE, THE ENVIRONMENTALISTS
CANNOT BE PLEASED BY LAUGHABLE
CONCESSIONS AS MORNINGSIDE HAS
MADE LIKE HEATING THE TINY
SWIMMING POOL WITH SOLAR PANELS
.
NEIGHBORHOOD ACTIVISTS WANT
MORE RETAIL AND WITH SEVERAL
HUNDRED MORE RESIDENTS IN THESE
TWO PHASES IN THESE LAST TWO
PHASES WE SURE WE COULD USE IT,
THE DEVELOPER BOASTED AN ASIAN
GROCERY STORE WILL BE OPENING
IN THE SECOND BUILDING AND
OF COURSE WE ARE REALLY HAPPY
ABOUT THAT.
BUT HIS REFUSAL TO INCLUDE
RETAIL IN THE THIRD BUILDING IS
JUST UNFORGIVABLE.
SO HOW DO WE JUSTIFY APPROVING
PROJECTS SUCH AS THESE?
THEY ARE UGLY.
THEY IMPACT NEGATIVELY ON OUR
LIVES.
THEY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE
ENVIRONMENT AND THEY DON'T
ADEQUATELY ADDRESS OUR
CONCERNS.
WE ARE TOLD THAT WE NEED MORE
HOUSING TO EXPAND THE
POPULATION TO SUPPORT OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE.
I'VE READ MY REMARKS SO I KNOW
THAT CAPITALISM REQUIRES
CONSTANT EXPANSION OF THE
ECONOMY WE WANT AND DESERVE
MORE THAN WE ARE GETTING IN
THIS DRIVE TO KEEP GROWING WE
NEED TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO HAVE
A CITY WITH A HEALTHY ECONOMY
AND DECENT HOUSING FOR ALL
WITHOUT RUINING ITS LIVABILITY
IN THE PROCESS.
WHAT A BOON IT WOULD BE IF YOU
WOULD MAKE A STAND FOR
LIVABILITY AND NOT APPROVE THIS
FINAL BUILDING IN THE MORNING
SIDE PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SIR.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK?
YOU CAN JUST COME ON.
THANK YOU.
MARY UNDERWOOD FROM TWELVE
EIGHTEEN TRAILER.
I ASK THAT YOU SPEAK
MICROPHONES.
I'M SORRY BUT I DIDN'T HEAR
MUCH ABOUT WHAT WAS DISCUSSED
ABOUT THE PROJECT WHEN YOU
SPOKE EARLIER.
I'D LIKE TO AGREE
WHOLEHEARTEDLY WITH DON AND
WITH WHAT LAURIE JUST STORY
JUST SAID I DON'T KNOW IF I'M
MORE ALARMED AT WHAT THE
DEVELOPER IS TRYING TO DO OR
WHAT THE CITY IS TRYING TO DO.
IF YOU REALLY ARE TRYING TO
MEET THE SUSTAINABLE GOALS, YOU
CAN'T DO ONE THING FOR A
DEVELOPER AND THEN DO ANOTHER
FOR ANOTHER ONE.
YOU CAN'T BE LED BY DEVELOPERS.
YOU HAVE TO DO THE LEADING
YOURSELF AND TELL THE
DEVELOPERS WHAT WE WANT FOR
THIS TOWN THE PRIORITY IS WE
DECIDE WHAT WE WANT THE
DEVELOPERS RUN WITH THE LEAD
FOR THIS AND THAT'S REALLY
ABOUT ALL I'D LIKE TO SAY AND
REMIND YOU.
THANK YOU.
WAS THERE ONE ONE MORE?
YEAH, SURE.
ATRISCO THIRTEEN TWENTY SEVEN
BROADWAY.
I'LL KEEP THIS VERY SHORT I
HOPE YOU'RE PLANNING AND NOT
MERELY APPROVING DEVELOPMENTS
IN THE CITY ON A PIECEMEAL
BASIS.
LARGER ISSUES SHOULD AFFECT
YOUR THINKING AND DECISIONS.
FOR EXAMPLE YOU MIGHT REQUIRE
THAT THIS BUILDING INVOLVE AN
EXCUSE OR YOU MIGHT REQUIRE THE
BUILDING BE ALL ELECTRIC.
YOU HAVE TO START SOMETIME IF
YOU'RE GOING TO ACHIEVE
CARBON NEUTRALITY CAN'T KEEP
PUTTING IT OFF.
BUT THE DEVELOPER MADE A BAD
CHOICE BY PUTTING IN SOME
OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE FOR GAS
SHOULD BE IRRELEVANT HERE.
WELL PERHAPS YOU COULD CRUSH
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN THIS
BUILDING IS AFFORDABLE HOUSING
JUST HOUSING THAT'S AFFORDABLE
TO SOMEONE REQUIRE THAT SOME
UNITS BE SET ASIDE FOR A TRULY
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND MAKE
CERTAIN THAT THOSE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING UNITS ARE FILLED.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT
?
I THINK A GOOD MAN.
MY NAME IS KEN GARBER.
I LOVE THE TWENTY EIGHT
HABERMEHL COURT.
I AGREE WITH MISS UNDERWOOD
ABOUT THE NEED FOR CONSISTENCY
AND HOLDING DEVELOPERS TO
STANDARDS WHEN IT COMES TO
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT.
I'M GOING TO SPEAK THIS IS
SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES OF THIS
PROJECT.
THEY PROBABLY THOUGHT YOU KNOW
THAT MR. HILL ALLUDED TO OUR
SIZE LATEST MEMO.
THEY'RE RECOMMENDING THAT THE
BUILDINGS BE MINIMIZED TO BACK
UP AND CRITICAL SYSTEMS ON YOUR
FIRST ONE HUNDRED EIGHTY
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT BUILDING
THROUGHOUT.
I CALCULATE THAT IT WILL
GENERATE AN ANNUAL ONE THOUSAND
TWO HUNDRED THIRTY EIGHT METRIC
TON CO2 EMISSIONS FROM THAT
COMBUSTION.
THIS WOULD BE PARTIALLY OFFSET
BY REDUCE EMISSIONS OF THREE
HUNDRED FORTY METRIC TONS FROM
THAT ANY EMISSIONS OF EIGHT
HUNDRED EIGHTY NINE METRIC TON
CO2 EQUIVALENT FROM NATURAL GAS
COMBUSTION IN PAST MEETINGS
HAVE DETAILED HOW I ARRIVE AT
THESE CALCULATIONS FOUR YEARS
INTO THE EIGHTIES AND THIS IS
UNACCEPTABLE.
I WOULD THINK A SYSTEM THAT
REFRIGERANT FAR WOULD BE IDEAL
VERY FOR FROM A CENTRAL SOURCE
TO EVAPORATORS THAT CONTROL
DIFFERENT SPACES IN THE
BUILDING MEETING THE NEEDS
OF EACH SPACE INDIVIDUALLY.
THE TEAM IN BUILDINGS OF THIS
SIZE INCLUDING AN AREA IN
SIMILAR CLIMATES OR EVEN COLDER
ALSO IT'S NOT CLEAR TO ME HOW
MUCH SMALLER THE PROJECT WILL
INCLUDE.
I REMEMBER THAT AS OF JANUARY
THE PETITIONER LIEUTENANT
TO
INSTALL ANY I THINK IT SOUNDS
LIKE BASED UNDERSTAFF POCKET
CHANGE TO SOME EXTENT AND I
JUST DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH
SWITCHING I HAVE A TECHNICAL
QUESTION AFFORDABLE HOUSING THE
PROTECTION WILL BE ADDING SIX
ARGUABLY AFFORDABLE UNITS AT 60
PERCENT AND I TO THE FIFTEEN
ALREADY AGREED ON FOR THE WHOLE
PROJECT THREE BUILDINGS FOR A
TOTAL OF TWENTY ONE UNITS.
COUNTY ACCORDING TO NATHAN ROAD
ALSO CITED THE TWENTY A NUMBER
RECENTLY AFFECTED UNITS WERE
FOLDED INTO THE BONFIELD PLAN.
MY QUESTION IS WILL THE FENCE
FOR THE SIX UNITS COMING FROM
THE EXISTING BLOUNTVILLE
BARRICADES 2.5 FOR THIS ANY DC
VIOLENCE DIDN'T ALLOW FOR
BATTLEFIELD FUNDS TO BE USED
FOR THIS PURPOSE OF THE FINAL
PLANNED SWITCH TO 4.5 MILLION
TO THE PARKING STRUCTURE WHICH
DOES ALLOW PROBLEMS TO WORK
WHERE PUBLIC MONEY IF ANY FOR
THE SIX ADDITIONAL HOUSING
UNITS COMING FROM A SMALL POINT
IT'S MAINLY THE BIG ISSUE FOR
ME IS AGAIN THAT THEY DON'T GO
WITH A REPLICATOR.
I CAN AVOID THAT AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE MENTIONED CONDITIONS
AND APPROVAL.
I COULDN'T TELL WHETHER SHE IS
INCLUDED IN THE RECOMMENDATIONS
IN THAT CONDITION.
I HOPE THAT IS ONE OF THEM.
THANK YOU.
SO ANYBODY WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK DO WE HAVE ANYBODY IN THE
QUEUE?
THANK YOU TOM STOLLBERG THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION
.
HELLO AGAIN IN THE CLIMATE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
WELL, I I AGREE THAT WE'RE BACK
TO THE DRAWING BOARD TO COME UP
A IT PERFECTLY IF I MAY.
I JUST THOUGHT THAT EXPLANATION
UNSATISFACTORY TO AND FROM I
CAN TELL THE TWO PART PROJECT
IN THE CITY OF NANAHARA NO
MINIMUM THAT I WILL WORK ON
THEIR WEEKLY OP YOU DEAL IN
EXCHANGE FOR HOUSING OR FOR
BUILDING SUSTAINABLE IF THAT
OPTION HAD TO DO WITH ONE I
WOULD HAVE HAD TO.
IS THE CASE FOR REGULATING
APARTMENT APJ I TO CHANGE THAT
CAME OUT OF THE NEIGHBOR
AGAINST THE CITY OF HAVING TO
DO WITH MY APARTMENT ON THAT
WAS NOT AN ISSUE.
HOW MANY AFFORDABLE HOUSING
UNITS HAVE THE BEEN THAT
COMMUNITY TRAINING THAT OR
MAYBE ABOUT AND IN THE KNOW
OF THE PREVIOUS BE THE CURRENT
ISSUE ONE HUNDRED FOR THE BLOCK
APPLICATION DOES NOT COMPLY
WITH THE COMPREHENSIVE
ESPECIALLY LOCATION SUCH AS THE
CURRENT INITIATIVE IN MY
OPINION THAT SHOULD BE ADHERED
TO AT THE LOCAL DETROIT NO
MATTER HOW YOU WANT TO HIRE
CATACLYSMIC PEOPLE.
BUT YOU I'VE ALREADY PAID FOR
BY THE WHILE CHARGE THE HIGHEST
POSSIBLE FOR UPI WHILE PRIVATE
IN MY OPINION I BET WILL ONLY
HAPPEN NOW THEY CAN HAVE A
PUBLICATION ON THIS OR AT LEAST
WHAT AND THERE IS NO OTHER TO
YOU THAT PEOPLE MIGHT NOT EVEN
WOULD BE A PROBLEM WITH ALCOHOL
MAYBE IF THEY DID NOT INCLUDE
THE THANK YOU YOU HAVE OTHER
PEOPLE IN THE QUEUE WE DO.
DANIEL ADAMS, YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION YOUR TEN SIXTEEN
DANIEL ST. I THINK THAT YOU
KNOW THE MATH HERE IS REALLY
TWO HUNDRED APARTMENTS VERSUS
EIGHTY KANO'S.
THAT'S WHAT I UNDERSTAND TO BE
AT STAKE HERE WITH THE ZONING
REQUEST RELATIVE TO THE CHANGES
THAT ARE BEING PROPOSED.
THE ORIGINALLY APPROVED PLAN
THAT'S MEANT AND THAT'S THE
STRONGEST ARGUMENT IN MY VIEW
TO APPROVE THIS PROJECT.
WE HAVE OUR CRISIS AND I DON'T
THINK WE CAN AFFORD TO TURN
DOWN THAT KIND DENSITY
PROPOSITION GIVEN THE CURRENT
SITUATION THAT WE'RE IN.
I THINK A LOT OF FOLKS WHO HAVE
SPOKEN TONIGHT I UNDERSTAND WHY
THAT ARGUMENT DOESN'T RESONATE
.
MANY OF THESE FOLKS AT THEIR
HOMES DECADES AGO THE LOCAL
LANGUAGE HE ACQUIRED A LOT
OF HIS RENTAL PROPERTIES
DECADES AGO THEN THE
CONSIDERATIONS THAT THEY SPOKE
SOMETIME WHEN YOU KNOW I GET
ALL THAT I UNDERSTAND
ESTHETICALLY WHY THAT'S
TROUBLING TO SEE SOME OF THE
CHANGES THAT HAVE HAPPENED TO
ME.
I BOUGHT MY HOUSE IN 2012.
I'VE LIVED HERE MY ENTIRE LIFE
IN THE AREA AND I REMEMBER WHAT
THIS WHAT THIS AREA OF TOWN
LOOK LIKE IN PARTICULAR WAS
PASSING LOOKED LIKE BEFORE THE
PROJECT BEGAN.
THIS HAS BEEN A TREMENDOUS
SUCCESS FOR THIS AREA.
IT WAS IT WAS A DEAD ZONE.
THE REASON WHY RETAIL COULDN'T
SURVIVE WAS THAT, YOU KNOW, IT
JUST WAS NOT VIABLE THRIVING
NEIGHBORHOOD IN TERMS OF THE
AMOUNT OF DENSITY PEOPLE LIVING
.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THE
NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES ARE
DEMANDING BUT YOU KNOW, THEY
WERE EITHER INSUFFICIENTLY
REALISTIC ABOUT IT WHEN IT
EXISTED DECADES AGO OR THEY
WERE INSUFFICIENT IN NUMBER TO
SUSTAIN IT AND THE WAITING
REVERSED IN THE WAKE OF THE WAY
BREAK THE DEMAND TO HOLD RETAIL
BACK INTO THIS THIS AREA
OF THIS COMMUNITY AND SUSTAIN
IT IS TO TAKE TAKE THE
PROPOSITION THAT IT'S THERE AND
THAT'S IN FRONT OF IT TONIGHT.
DO YOU WANT VERSUS ANY TIME
LIMIT SOME AT LEASE APPROVALS.
THANK YOU.
NO OTHER HANDS RAISED.
OK, SO WE HAVE TWO MOTIONS
WHICH I WILL READ TOGETHER
UNIVERSITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
THE REZONING OF ONE ONE FOUR
BRADWAY BY ACCEPTING THE OFFER
TO AMEND THE CONDITIONAL ZONING
STATEMENT OF THE MENDICANT
ADDITIONS TO THE ROOM TO REMOVE
TIEING DEVELOPMENT INTO A
DISTRICT TO THE ONE ONE FOUR OH
BRADWAY PLAN PROJECT SITE PLAN
AND SUBSEQUENT ADMINISTRATIVE
AMENDMENTS AND ACCEPT THE
CONDITIONAL ZONING STATEMENT.
SECOND AMENDED CONDITIONS.
THE SECOND MOTION IS THE
UNIVERSITY CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE A NINE NINE NINE
MAIDENLY SITE PLAN SUBJECT TO
ADDRESSING OUTSTANDING COMMENTS
FROM ENGINEERING AND
TRANSPORTATION AND FIRST
AMENDMENT TO ONE ONE FOUR OH
BROADWAY DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
.
OK WE HAVE MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
DISTRICT BY COMMISSIONER WHICH
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
ANYBODY TO KICK US OUT
COMMISSIONER SO SO MAYBE I'LL
START WITH THE KIND OF RETAIL
CONCERNS AND I AM EXCITED WITH
THE CONTRACT THAT'S BEEN
APPROVED FOR COMPREHENSIVE
PLANNING AND SPECIFICALLY
MINECART PARTNERS IS PART
OF THAT COMPREHENSIVE TEAM THAT
EVEN DURING THE INTERVIEW
PROCESS WAS ABLE TO PULL UP
METRICS FOR OUR AREA FOR OUR
CITY LOOKING I THINK TO SEE IS
KIND OF A VERY KIND OF VIBRANT
DISCUSSION RIGHT NOW ABOUT THE
RATIOS OF RETAIL TO HOUSING.
I CAN'T I'M NOT THE
PROFESSIONAL IN THIS EXACT
CATEGORY BUT REALLY SOME OF THE
EARLY FEEDBACK THAT WE GOT
PRIOR TO THEM REALLY DIGGING IN
IS THAT NOT EVERYTHING CAN HAVE
RETAIL.
THE CRITICAL MASS IS NOT THERE
FOR EVERY PROJECT TO HAVE
RETAIL AND WE'VE SEEN THAT WITH
THE GEORGE AS WELL AND SO IT
REALLY IS KIND OF RIGHTSIZING
ALL OF OUR PROJECTS RELATIVE TO
THE AMOUNT OF BEDS ADJACENT AND
SOMETIMES IT'S THE CART AND THE
HORSE AND REALLY WE NEED TO SEE
MORE HOUSING BEFORE WE SEE THAT
CRITICAL MASS OF RETAIL TO
FOLLOW.
KIND OF I'M EXCITED JUST LIKE
THERE ARE OTHER THINGS COMING
IN LIKE LOWERTOWN BUYERS COMING
TO THE CORNER WHICH HAS ALSO
HAD TO GO THROUGH THE ZEBA
WE'RE RIGHT AT THE CROSSROADS
OF THAT PROCESS OF REMOVING
PARKING MINIMUMS AND IT REALLY
THEY NEEDED TO REQUEST TO HAVE
ZERO PARKING TO MAKE THAT
PROJECT FEASIBLE AS A LOCAL
SMALL BUSINESS.
SO I THINK WE UNDERSTAND WITHIN
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD IT'S REALLY
DIFFICULT WITH OUR CURRENT
POLICY IS TO EVEN MAKE THOSE
PROJECTS WORK AND THEY HAVE TO
GO THROUGH ADDITIONAL HURDLES
TO THE FEASIBILITY.
SO I UNDERSTAND THAT THERE'S
ALWAYS DESIRE FOR MORE THIRD
PLACES.
THAT'S A LOT OF WHAT MAKES OUR
COMMUNITIES BUT WE HAVE THEM
HERE AND PLATE DO SHEEPLIKE
JUST LIKE LITTLE SPOTS LIKE
RIGHT AROUND THIS AREA ARE
THERE AND I THINK THAT IT WOULD
BE GREAT FOR THEM TO HAVE MORE
CUSTOMERS IN A WALKABLE RADIUS
AND THROUGH THAT MOMENTUM WE
CAN SEE MORE DEVELOPMENT RIGHT.
WE'VE GOT THE PARKWAY
DEVELOPMENT RIGHT AT THE
RIVERFRONT THAT WE CAN SEE BOTH
MOMENTUM AT OUR RETAIL TOO.
SO I DON'T REALLY HAVE CONCERNS
IN LOSING THE RETAIL.
I THINK I AGREE WITH ONE
COMMENTER ABOUT EXCHANGING
LARGER CONDOS, A SMALLER
QUANTITY FOR APARTMENTS
RELATIVE TO THE ACCESS AND
AFFORDABILITY OF JUST ADDING
MORE UNITS TO OUR HOUSING STOCK
AND AS I READ IT WE'RE LOOKING
AT SEE WHAT THEY ARE LOOKING AT
THE CONDITIONS HERE.
BUT EVERYTHING ELSE WE'VE MOVED
THE WAY WE DO NOT HAVE PLANNED
PROJECTS ANYMORE.
SO THAT'S ALSO I REVIEW THIS
PROJECT PLAN PROJECTS DON'T
EXIST AND WE'RE ABOUT BOTH
RECOMMENDING HERE BUT REVIEWING
THIS RELATIVE TO THE CONDITIONS
OF OUR UDC.
YES, WE WANT THINGS WE WANT
ELECTRIFICATION BUT WE CANNOT
REQUIRE THEM OF PROJECTS AND
THIS ONE HAS A LITTLE NUANCE TO
IT.
BUT IT'S NOT IN THE PUDI
CATEGORY OF MEASURING SOME
OF THOSE EXCHANGES IN THE SAME
WAY.
AND SO FOR THAT UNDERSTANDING
THAT THIS IS MEETING THE INTENT
OF THE ORIGINAL PLAN, I JUST I
GUESS I KIND OF WANT TO LIKE
MAKE I HAVE TO TWO FOLD TO KIND
OF WRAP UP THIS KIND OF ONE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN I THINK IS
GOING TO ENGAGE THE WHOLE
COMMUNITY AND UNDERSTANDING
BETTER WHAT OUR RETAIL TO
HOUSING RATIOS REALLY SHOULD
BE, NOT WHAT WE THINK THEY
SHOULD BE WITH PROFESSIONALS
RUNNING THOSE NUMBERS WHICH CAN
HELP US STRATEGIZE SOME OF THIS
ZONING AND THOSE EXPECTATIONS
BETTER SO THAT THESE
CONVERSATIONS DON'T COME KIND
OF AT THE LAST MINUTE SAYING I
WISH I COULD BUT NOBODY
ACTUALLY STEPPING UP TO THE
PLATE WE COULD DO THIS BUT
NOBODY'S TO BE ABLE TO PLAY TO
SAY I'M GOING PUT MY MONEY
THERE AND START THE BUSINESS
AND I THINK PART OF THAT
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS REALLY
GOING TO HELP EVERYBODY BE
ENLIGHTENED TO WHAT THAT MIX IS
AND THEN MY REVIEW IS THAT
BEING SO CLOSELY RELATED TO SEE
WHAT THEY ARE SO PURPOSELY KIND
OF DEVELOPED TO THIS POINT I
DON'T SEE LIKE A LOT
OF DEVIATION RELATIVE TO WHAT
WE'RE LOOKING AT TODAY THAT I
DON'T HAVE DISCOMFORT RELATIVE
TO APPROVING THIS PROJECT.
SO I DON'T REALLY HAVE FURTHER
COMMENTS BUT I WANTED TO KIND
OF HAVE THAT PLUG FOR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
THANK YOU.
CAN I GUESS SO I DON'T THINK
ALL OF THE WORD ONE RESIDENTS
HAVE COME OUT TO SPEAK FOR AND
AGAINST AND TO EXPRESS CONCERN
AND UH, REALISTIC HOPES FOR THE
PROJECT.
I WANT TO HIGHLIGHT SOME
OF WHAT I SEE AS THE BENEFITS
OF THE PROJECT.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO TAKE SOME
TIME TO ASK A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS TO ALLAY SOME
OF THE CONCERNS BECAUSE I THINK
THAT REASONABLE CONCERNS HAVE
BEEN RAISED.
SO I'M REALLY PLEASED I'M SORRY
I REALIZE I'M NOT LET ME USE MY
NEWS , MY PUBLIC SPEAKING VOICE
SO EVERYONE CAN HEAR ME AND BE
PLEASED TO SEE YOU CONVERT.
WHAT YOU HAD EXPECTED TO BUILD
IS AN EIGHTY CONDO PROJECT INTO
WHAT IS ACTUALLY INFILL PROJECT
.
THAT'S WHERE WE GET GREATER
DENSITY WHERE THERE'S EXISTING
INFRASTRUCTURE AND SO YOU'VE
CONVERTED THIS INTO AN INFILL
PROJECT THAT WILL BRING ONE
HUNDRED AND NINETY SIX UNITS
OF RENTAL HOUSING TO A SITE
THAT'S WITHIN A STONE'S THROW A
MAJOR EMPLOYER WHICH IS THE
HOSPITAL AND IN WALKING
DISTANCE OF SHOPPING
ENTERTAINMENT AND CENTRAL
CAMPUS THE THIS PROPOSAL FULLY
ACCORDS WITH THE CITY'S CURRENT
POLICY ON PARKING WHICH IS THAT
WE NO LONGER REQUIRE PARKING
MINIMUMS.
WE THINK THERE ARE BETTER USES
FOR LAND AND CAR STORAGE AND WE
REGARD THAT AS A DESIRED
ELEMENT THAT PEOPLE REDUCE
PARKING.
THAT'S WHY WE DO NOT REQUIRE A
DEVELOPER TO TRADE US SOMETHING
WE WANT FOR PROVIDING FUEL A
PARKING SPACE IS AS IF THAT
WERE A PRIVILEGE.
WE'RE HAPPY TO SEE THAT THEY
ARE WILLING TO EXPERIMENT WITH
FEWER PARKING SPACES AND IN
THIS CASE I THINK WE MAY HAVE A
LITTLE BIT MORE THAN
SPECULATION TO GO ON TO BE
CONFIDENT THAT THE PARKING WILL
BE OK.
BUT I DID WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT
THIS AND SO CAN SO I WANTED TO
UNDERSTAND YOU WERE ORIGINALLY
ZONED FOUR POINT NINE SPACES
PER UNIT AND WHAT'S THE ACTUAL
DEMAND YOU CAN BRING THAT UP
AND SAID OK, FINE, YEAH, I'LL
BE UP AND DOWN WITH THAT BEND
OVER THIS WAY.
OK, SO TO ANSWER YOUR QUESTION
RIGHT THE ORIGINAL ONLY
REQUIRED ONE SPACE PER UNIT WE
WORK WITH THE ZIBA TO LOWER
THAT TO ZERO POINT NINE PER
UNIT REALIZING THAT GIVEN THE
MULTIMODAL KIND OF LOCATION
PROXIMITY TO EMPLOYMENT THAT
THAT THAT WOULD BE PROPER.
WE THOUGHT IT WAS MAYBE A
LITTLE HEAVY BUT YOU KNOW, WE
DIDN'T KNOW WHAT THE REAL
DEMAND WOULD BE.
BUT NOW WE HAVE THE BENEFIT
OF OPERATING THE FIRST BUILDING
NOW FOR TWO YEARS.
SO IT'S A VERY UNIQUE SITUATION
TO HAVE WHAT WE HAVE THE
PARKING DECK BUILT IN THE FIRST
BUILDING.
YOU CAN OPERATE IT BEFORE OTHER
PHASES ARE DEVELOPED.
SO WHAT WE FOUND IS IS THAT THE
ACTUAL DEMAND FOR PARKING IN
THIS PARTICULAR PROJECT IS ZERO
POINT SIX SPACES PER UNIT AND
JUST CLARIFY SOMETHING SO
THAT'S PARTICULAR TO THIS
PROJECT IN THIS LOCATION I
WOULDN'T SUGGEST THAT THAT'S
YOU KNOW, YOU THROW THAT METRIC
AROUND THAT USING FOR OTHER
PROJECTS IF YOU'RE IN THE CBD
YOU MIGHT LOOK AT IT
DIFFERENTLY BUT JUST UNIQUE
CIRCUMSTANCES.
THAT'S THE THAT'S THE RATIO AND
IF IT CONTINUES AT THAT RATE
YOU WOULD HAVE SUFFICIENT
CAPACITY.
AND IS THERE ANY REASON TO
THINK IT WON'T CONTINUE AT THAT
RATE?
WELL, WE THERE'S NO REASON TO
THINK THAT IT WON'T CONTINUE AT
THAT RATE.
WE DO EVEN THE LEASE UP
HAPPENING FOR THE SECOND PHASE
THAT WE'RE GOING TO DELIVER
SOON AND THEN THAT RATIO IS
COMING IN AROUND THAT NUMBER
EVEN A LITTLE BIT LOWER RIGHT
NOW.
SO WE'RE ENCOURAGED BY THAT.
I WOULD SAY THAT GIVEN THE
NUMBER OF SPACES IN THE DECK
AND ON THE SURFACE PARKING ZERO
POINT SIX TIMES SEVEN HUNDRED
AND THIRTY SIX UNITS THERE'S
ENOUGH PARKING IN THE DECK AND
ON THE SURFACE TO NOT ONLY
ACCOMMODATE POINT SIX BUT TO
LEAVE A REASONABLE BUFFER NOT
JUST FOR GUESTS AND FOR
HANDICAPPED ACCESSIBLE STALLS
BUT ALSO FOR THE RETAIL PARKING
AND FOR TO THE EXTENT WHEN THE
RATIO FLUCTUATES A LITTLE BIT
OVER TIME IT'S NOT A STATIC
POINT SIX THANK YOU.
I KNOW SOME OF MY CONSTITUENTS
CONCERNED THAT BECAUSE YOU
CHARGE FOR YOUR PARKING NOT
DENYING THAT YOU OUGHT TO BUT
BECAUSE YOU CHARGE FOR YOUR
PARKING THERE COULD BE OVER
THERE COULD BE FOLKS WHO ARE
ACTUALLY NOT PURCHASING OR
PARKING BUT PARKING IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
ARE WE SEEING OVERFLOW IN THE
SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOOD?
NO.
AND IF AND IF THERE WERE WE
WOULD SEE IT ALREADY.
IF PEOPLE DIDN'T WANT TO PARK
IN THE DECK BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T
WANT TO PAY FOR IT, THEY WOULD
HAVE TO PARK THEIR CAR
SOMEWHERE.
SO TO MY KNOWLEDGE THERE IS I
DON'T SEE ANY OF THAT
HAPPENING.
OK, I WANTED TO ASK YOU I
WANTED TO SPEAK TO TWO OTHER
THINGS AND ONE IS TO THE
QUESTION OF SOLAR AND I NOTICED
THAT YOU HAD PROPOSED TO
INSTALL SOLAR ON THE TOP OF THE
PARKING STRUCTURE OF PERHAPS
THE FIRST TIME THIS WENT AROUND
AND THAT WASN'T APPROVED.
SO I COULD SPEAK TO THAT AND
SOME OF YOU MAY REMEMBER THIS
WAS BACK IN TWENTY SEVENTEEN.
I WASN'T SURE IF YOU'D INDULGE
ME.
I COULD KIND OF REFRESH
EVERYBODY'S MEMORY OR TELL
EVERYBODY WHAT HAPPENED SO
DURING THAT ENTITLEMENT PROCESS
I WAS APPROACHED BY SEVERAL
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO CAME
TO ME.
THEY SAID I WE'D REALLY LIKE TO
SEE SOLAR THE PROJECT.
WE KNOW HOW DIFFICULT IT IS,
HOW EXPENSIVE IT IS.
COULD YOU PLEASE MAKE A GOOD
EFFORT TO TRY TO ANALYZE IT AND
FIGURE OUT HOW TO INCORPORATE?
SO THE FUNDAMENTAL PROBLEM WE
HAVE IS WE JUST DON'T HAVE ANY
LAND FOR SOLAR ANY HAVE THE
BUILDINGS, YOU HAVE THE ROADS,
YOU HAVE THE TRAILER CREEK SET
BACK THE PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT
AND ALL THESE DIFFERENT THINGS
AND I WAS THINKING HOW COULD WE
CREATE LAND?
AND THEN IT DAWNED ON ME WE CAN
RECLAIM LAND IF WE CAN BUILD A
ROOF OVER OUR PARKING
STRUCTURE.
NOW FOR ANYONE WHO KNOWS THE
PARKING STRUCTURE IN THE FIRST
BUILDING, IT'S HAS A VERY LARGE
FOOTPRINT.
IT'S ALMOST THIRTY THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET AND IT'S AN OPEN
PARKING DECK.
PART OF OUR COMMITMENT TO
SUSTAINABILITY IS NOT TO KEEP
THAT PARKING DECK.
OBVIOUSLY THE BIG EXPENSIVE GAS
AND CARBON ALL THOSE THINGS AND
IT'S A CONTINUOUS PARKING RAMP.
SO WE CAME UP WITH AN IDEA THAT
IF WE COULD BUILD A ROOF OVER
THE PARKING STRUCTURE NOW WE
WOULD HAVE ENOUGH REAL ESTATE
THAT NOT JUST ADD A FEW SOLAR
PANELS JUST TO ADD THEM JUST SO
WE COULD SAY WE DID IT BUT WE
COULD DO IT IN AN EFFICIENT WAY
AND ACTUALLY GENERATE
MEANINGFUL SOLAR AS A RESULT
THAT WE WORK WITH A THIRD PARTY
CONSULTANT THAT I PAID FOR AND
THE PROPOSITION I MADE WITH THE
CITY AND I THOUGHT WE HAD GREAT
TRACTION I THOUGHT THIS WAS
GOING TO HAPPEN WAS THAT WE
WOULD USE THE TESTS TO PAY FOR
THE COST OF THE OF THE ROOF
OVER THE PARKING DECK IN OTHER
WORDS TO CREATE THE REAL ESTATE
SO THAT WE COULD CREATE THE
SOLAR PV ARRAY AND THE MATH I
BELIEVE SUPPORTED IT COULD
HAPPEN.
I MEAN OBVIOUSLY THERE'S
FLUCTUATIONS IN TERMS OF WHAT
THE MARKET PRICES FOR THE
ELECTRIC AND WHATNOT ARE WE WE
WENT TO THE CITY BROWNFIELD
COMMITTEE AND THE THEN CFO
OF THE CITY REALLY DIDN'T LIKE
THIS IDEA AND I RESPECT HIS
OPINIONS.
HE DIDN'T SEE THE WORLD QUITE
THE WAY I DID.
AND WHEN WE WERE SITTING AT THE
TABLE TO TALK ABOUT WHETHER OR
NOT IT SHOULD BE APPROVED,
LET'S JUST SAY HE WAS MORE
PERSUASIVE THAN I WAS AND HE
CONVINCED THE COMMITTEE TO VOTE
IT DOWN.
SO WE TRIED VERY HARD TO COMPLY
WITH THE REQUEST.
THANK YOU.
AND IT WAS THE CITY TO THE
DECIDED NOT TO DO IT.
THERE'S NO HARD FEELINGS AND WE
TRIED WE DID WHAT WE WERE ASKED
DO AND BY THE WAY WE WERE NEVER
COMPENSATED FOR THE THIRD PARTY
CONSULTING EXPENSE BUT JUST
NEITHER HERE NOR THERE.
I HONESTLY DIDN'T KNOW THAT
STORY SO I WAS CURIOUS ABOUT
THAT.
THE YOU HAVE MET THE TERMS
OF THE CURRENT AGREEMENT WHICH
CALLED
FOR FIFTEEN UNITS
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING AT 60
PERCENT AND I AND YOU'VE
COMMITTED TO ADDING NINE NINETY
NINE MAIDEN LANE TO THE TERMS
OF THAT PREVIOUS AGREEMENT
WHICH WOULD INCREASE THE COUNT
BY APPROXIMATELY SIX UNITS AT
SIXTY PERCENT.
AND WHY ARE YOU REQUIRED TO DO
THAT?
TWO THINGS ARE THAT WE ARE NOT
REQUIRED WE VOLUNTARILY OFFERED
TO INCORPORATE THAT BUILDING
INTO THE TERMS OF THE CURRENT
AGREEMENT THAT WE HAVE AND ALSO
TO ANSWER A QUESTION THAT KEN
GARBER ASKED ABOUT HOW ARE THEY
GETTING COMPENSATED?
THE ANSWER IS THEY'RE NOT
THINKING I WAS GOING TO ASK YOU
THAT AND THEN I WONDERED
ANOTHER QUESTION HAS COME UP
WHICH IS HOW MANY OF THE
CURRENT FIFTEEN UNITS FELT THE
CURRENT FIFTEEN SO THEY FILLED
UP QUICKLY.
SO THE FIRST BUILDING THEY'RE
ALL FILLED THERE'S NEED IN THE
FIRST BUILDING THERE ARE SEVEN
IN THE SECOND BUILDING LAST I
SAW IN LEASING I THINK SIX
OF THEM ALREADY RENTED AND YOU
HAVEN'T OPENED THE SECOND
BUILDING WE'VE NOT OPEN YET.
THANK YOU OK SO I I THINK THAT
I HAVE RAISED SOME OF THE MAJOR
QUESTIONS THAT MY CONSTITUENTS
RAISED SO THANK YOU AND AS
COMMISSIONER SO THEY MENTIONED
WE'VE HEARD A NUMBER
OF QUESTIONS AS TO WHY WE
AREN'T REQUIRING
ELECTRIFICATION OF THIS
PROJECT.
AND AGAIN THE ANSWER IS BECAUSE
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING THAT WE
CAN REQUIRE IF STATE BUILDING
CODES ALLOWED US TO DO THAT,
EVERY SINGLE PROJECT THAT CAME
BEFORE US WOULD BE ELECTRIFIED
BUT WE CAN'T REQUIRE THAT AND
YOU HAVE YOUR HEATING
INFRASTRUCTURE IN THE GROUND
AND SO WE WOULD NOT IMPOSE AN
INEFFICIENCY ON YOU AND ASK YOU
TO MAKE A HYBRID SOMETHING OR
OTHER.
I DON'T EVEN KNOW WHAT THAT
WOULD BE WHEN YOU ALREADY HAVE
THE INFRASTRUCTURE IN THE
GROUND.
SO I THINK THAT'S YOU KNOW, AS
MUCH AS I CAN ALLAY CONCERNS
AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR ANSWERS.
OK, THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER MILLS, THANKS.
I WANT TO FOLLOW ON TO THE
COMMENT ABOUT SOLAR.
IF YOU RAN THE NUMBERS IN
TWENTY SEVENTEEN I WOULD
IMAGINE THAT THEY'RE QUITE
DIFFERENT NOW AND I'M CURIOUS
IF YOU'VE RUN THE NUMBERS AGAIN
IN PART JUST TO LOOK AT WHAT
THIS LOOKS LIKE FOR THE THE
COMMON ENERGY USAGE.
I MEAN SOMETIMES IF YOU
SOMETIMES IN IN APARTMENT
BUILDINGS THERE CAN BE TREX OR
PARTICULARLY IN CONDO BUILDINGS
BUT IT SEEMS LIKE YOU PROBABLY
HAVE A DECENT AMOUNT OF ENERGY
USE ACROSS THE SITE JUST
YOURSELF.
SO I'M JUST IF YOU RUN THOSE
NUMBERS AGAIN TO RECAST WHAT IT
MIGHT LOOK LIKE NOW AND WHETHER
THAT'S IF IT MAKES SENSE,
ESPECIALLY IF YOU'RE GOING TO
OWN THESE BUILDINGS.
SURE.
THE SO THE ANSWER TO THAT
QUESTION IS THE IT'S NOT A
FUNCTION OF RERUNNING THE OLD
NUMBERS.
WHAT'S LOST IS THE OPPORTUNITY
TO CREATE THE REAL ESTATE WHICH
WAS THAT THE ROOF OF THE
PARKING.
SO THERE'S TALK ABOUT WHETHER
YOU CAN PUT THEM ON THE ROOFS
OF THE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
AND YOU SEE PROJECTS WHERE IT
HAPPENS.
I WOULD JUST TELL YOU IN MY
EXPERIENCE AND DAVID'S
EXPERIENCE WE'VE BEEN DOING
THIS I'VE BEEN DOING IT FOR 30
YEARS.
I UNDERSTAND SOMETHING ABOUT
BUILDING A CONSTRUCTION AND AND
THIS IS NO COMMENT ON THE
DESIRABILITY OF SOLAR OR
WHETHER IT'S AN IMPORTANT CITY
PRIORITY.
I'M JUST SPEAKING ABOUT
CONSTRUCTION BUT RESIDENTIAL
ROOFS ESPECIALLY IN HIGH RISE
BUILDINGS ARE VERY DIFFICULT
PLACES TO CONSTRUCT EFFICIENT
SOLAR.
NOW IF YOU SAID YOU WERE GOING
TO CONDITION YOUR APPROVAL ON
US PUTTING IN A COUPLE OF SOLAR
PANELS ON THE ROOF OF THE
BUILDING, WE COULD DO IT BUT WE
DON'T WANT TO DO IT IN A GREEN
WASHING KIND OF VIRTUE
SIGNALING WE LIKE WE'RE GOING
TO DO IT WE'D LIKE TO DO IT THE
WAY WE WERE TRYING TO DO IN
TWENTY SEVENTEEN.
IT'S REALLY GOING TO WORK.
YOU KNOW THERE'S AN ARRAY
THERE'S AN EFFICIENT AMOUNT
OF LAND.
YOU THINK ABOUT A REFUNDABILITY
I I MADE A FEW NOTES YOU HAVE
WITH SCUTTLES YOU HAVE TO
CONTEND WITH YOU HAVE TO SEE
EQUIPMENT YOU GAS PIPING IN THE
CASE OF OUR BUILDINGS BECAUSE
OF THE SOIL CONTAMINATION IS
VAPOR MITIGATION EQUIPMENT WE
HAVE ROOFTOP ANCHORS THAT
PEOPLE TIE OFF TO WHEN THEY'RE
GOING TO WORK ON THE ROOF.
WE HAVE SET BACKS FOR SAFETY IN
CIRCULATION SO YOU CAN MOVE
YOUR WAY AROUND A ROUGH ALSO
WHEN YOU WHEN YOU INSTALL SOLAR
PANELS AND SOME KIND OF FRAME
SYSTEM YOU HAVE PENETRATIONS
YOU HAVE TO PUT THROUGH ROOFS.
EVERY ONE OF THOSE IS ANOTHER
SPOT THAT GETS FLASH TO
POTENTIALLY COULD LEAK.
YOU HAVE STRUCTURAL
CONSIDERATIONS BECAUSE THE THE
THE PANELS ARE LIKE SALES.
THEY PICK UP THE WIND AND YOU
HAVE TO WORK AGAINST UPLIFT NOT
TO MENTION MANY TIMES THAT THE
GEOMETRY AND OR TERESINA
BECOMES PROBLEMATIC.
SO THE ISSUE IS IT'S JUST IT'S
VERY INEFFICIENT TO TRY TO PUT
THEM ON THE ROOFS OF THE
BUILDINGS.
I WON'T DO IT NOW UNLESS YOU
REALLY WANTED ME TO.
I COULD SPEAK TO SUSTAINABILITY
ACROSS THE PROJECT IN GENERAL
AND I HOPE THAT WHEN WE DO THAT
WE CAN TALK ABOUT MORE THAN
JUST SOLAR BECAUSE I WOULD
ARGUE THAT THE SUSTAINABLE
FEATURES OF OUR PROJECT ARE
PROFOUND.
I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY
ARGUMENT ABOUT IT.
I WILL SPARE EVERYONE THAT
SPEECH UNLESS YOU REALLY WANT
IT.
BUT WE'VE DONE SO MUCH AND WE
MAY NOT BE HITTING THE MARK ON
SOLAR THE WAY SOME PEOPLE WOULD
LIKE AND THERE'S A WIDE RANGE
OF OPINIONS ON HOW MUCH TO DO
AND WHICH BOXES TO CHECK.
BUT I WOULD JUST ARGUE THAT
OVERALL IF YOU LOOK IN
AGGREGATE ACROSS THE THREE
PHASES OF OUR PROJECT IS
REMARKABLY SUSTAINABLE.
CAN YOU TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
THE EFFICIENCY STANDARDS
OF WHAT YOU'RE BUILDING THE
BUILDINGS?
I'M NOT SURE WHAT LIKE ARE YOU
SEEING THE STATE ENERGY
CODE IN TERMS OF ENERGY
EFFICIENCY?
SURE, SURE.
I COULD SPEAK TO SOME OF THOSE
THINGS SO I MEAN SPECIFICALLY
YOU TALK ABOUT ENERGY
EFFICIENCY.
SO THE FIRST THING IS REMEMBER
THAT SO MUCH OF THE ENERGY
CODE IS CODIFIED SO IT'S NOT
EVEN A MATTER OF IF LIKE WHEN
COMMISSIONER JUST WAS TALKING
ABOUT, YOU KNOW, IF IT WAS
REQUIRED.
WELL, BELIEVE ME, ENERGY
EFFICIENCY IS REQUIRED IN THE
ENVELOPE OF BUILDINGS.
THE ARCHITECTS KNOW THIS SO OUR
ENTIRE BUILDING IS FOAM
INSULATED THE WINDOWS, THE
GLAZING IS INSULATED.
WE HAVE WE HAVE TO COMPLY WITH
THE ENERGY CODE SOME
CALCULATION'S THE ARCHITECTURE
SPEAK TO IT IF WE WANT TO GET
SORT OF GRANULAR ON IT.
BUT WE HAVE THAT WE HAVE THE
OPEN AIR PARKING STRUCTURE
WHICH IS A CONSIDERATION.
WE'RE NOT HEATING THE DECK SO
IT'S A LITTLE LESS COMFORTABLE
CONVENIENT FOR TENANTS.
ON THE OTHER HAND, WE THOUGHT
THAT DOING SO WORKS AGAINST A
SUSTAINABLE INITIATIVES OF THE
CITY AND WE HAVE MANY OTHER
MINOR THINGS THAT WE DO IN THE
CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING
WHICH PROBABLY AREN'T WORTH
LISTING ALL BUT RELATED TO
INDOOR QUALITY WATER EFFICIENCY
MATERIAL USAGE, ENERGY AND
ATMOSPHERE.
SO WE DO A LOT THAT'S JUST WITH
RESPECT TO THE CONSTRUCTION
OF THE BUILDINGS THEMSELVES.
I MEAN IF YOU'D LIKE I COULD GO
ON THAT IF I WAS JUST TRYING TO
SEE IF THERE WAS ANYTHING
BEYOND KIND OF WHAT THE ENERGY
CODE REQUIRES IN TERMS OF THAT
CHANGES, I DON'T KNOW ALL THE
THINGS THAT I DON'T KNOW BUT
I'LL TAKE THE BUILDINGS.
BUT THAT'S OK I I THINK AND
FUTURE PROJECTS I JUST AGAIN I
APPRECIATE YOU'RE LOOKING AT IN
TWENTY SEVENTEEN UNDERSTAND
THAT THE SHIP HAS SAILED.
I AND I'LL LOVE MY DAY JOB
TALKING TO PEOPLE ABOUT WHAT
HAS HAPPENED RENEWABLE ENERGY
WHICH IS THAT THE PRICES HAVE
REALLY COME DOWN SO I JUST
ENCOURAGE TO LOOK AGAIN FOR THE
FUTURE PROJECTS UM YOU HAD
PREVIOUSLY ABOUT YOUR
EXPERIENCE WITH VEHICULAR
PARKING.
I'M CURIOUS ABOUT YOUR
EXPERIENCE IN THE EXISTING
BUILDINGS WITH YOU'VE PROVIDED
A LOT OF BIKE PARKING SO IF YOU
COULD TELL US WHAT THOSE BIKE
PROGRAMS LOOK LIKE AND ALSO
WHERE THEY ARE IN THOSE
BUILDINGS BECAUSE I'M INTRIGUED
BY WHERE YOUR PARKING IS IN
THIS PROPOSED BUILDING.
RIGHT.
I'M GLAD YOU MENTIONED THAT
MAYBE I COULD PICK YOU BACK
WHEN YOU WERE JUST TALKING
ABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY IN THE
BUILDINGS BECAUSE I WOULD
CONSIDER ALL OF THESE
TRANSPORTATION INITIATIVES WE
WE'VE TAKEN THEM ALL ARE IN THE
BUILDING SO WE ALREADY TALKED
ABOUT REDUCING THE VEHICLE
PARKING.
I DON'T HAVE TO RECAP OUT BUT I
DO WANT TO POINT OUT TWO THINGS
TO ANSWER YOUR QUESTION ABOUT
BIKE PARKING IN TWENTY
SEVENTEEN AND VAST ACCEPTANCE
OF THE CODE WHICH REQUIRES A
NOMINAL AMOUNT OF BIKES WE
DECIDED WE WOULD PROVIDE ONE
BICYCLE BASED PER UNIT.
WE'VE ADHERED TO IT FOR EVERY
ONE OF THE BUILDINGS.
WE'LL DO IT AGAIN FOR THIS
CURRENT BUILDING EVEN THOUGH IT
GOES BEYOND WHAT THE
CODE REQUIRES BECAUSE WE
UNDERSTAND THAT OUR TENANTS IN
THIS PARTICULAR LOCATION WANT
THE ABILITY TO BIKE TO WORK.
THEY WANT TO BIKE TO THE
HOSPITAL.
THEY WANT TO BIKE DOWNTOWN,
CARRY ON WHEREVER THEY'RE GOING
TO BE RECREATION ALSO WE
HAVEN'T TALKED ABOUT IT YET BUT
IN TERMS OF EV CHARGING I WILL
ALSO SAY THAT WELL BEFORE THE
EV CHARGING REQUIREMENTS ARE
PUT INTO THE CODE WE PUT EV
CHARGING STATIONS IN OUR
PARKING DECK.
IT WASN'T A FUNCTION OF WHETHER
OR NOT THE CODE WOULD REQUIRE
IT.
WE CAN SEE WHERE THE FUTURE IS
HEADED.
IT'S UNQUESTIONABLE THAT THE
VEHICLE FLEET IS GOING TO
CONVERT FROM GAS TO ELECTRIC
OVER SOME PERIOD OF TIME.
I SUPPOSE WE COULD DEBATE HOW
LONG THAT WOULD TAKE BUT WE
WANTED TO GET THAT ALL STARTED
SO WE KNOW WE HAVE SOME KIND
OF SET OF ELECTRIC VEHICLES.
WE ALREADY HAVE A COUPLE EV
CHARGING STATIONS IN THE DECK
AND WE FULLY EXPECT THAT OVER
THE COURSE OF TIME BECAUSE IT'S
SCALABLE THE DECK THAT YOU WILL
START TO SEE THOSE EV CHARGES
PROLIFERATE THROUGHOUT THE DECK
AND THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WON'T
IT'S NOT IT WON'T BE AS MANY
REQUIREMENT WE HAVE TO ADHERE
TO.
IT'S CATERING TO THE NEEDS
OF OUR TENANTS AND PROVIDING A
VALUED RESOURCE.
YOUR ELECTRICAL SERVICE IS
SCALED ACCORDINGLY IS ALLOWING
FOR THAT THE EXPANSION THAT
SERVICE WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO
EXPAND IT TO A POINT AND AND
BEYOND THAT WE WOULD HAVE TO
UPGRADE BUT FOR WHERE WE'RE AT
FOR THE PRESENT AND FOR
FORESEEABLE FUTURE WE HAVE
ENOUGH CAPACITY TO ADD THE
CHARGERS THE FORESIGHT IN TERMS
OF MAKING SURE THAT YOUR
ELECTRICAL CAPACITY IS READY
FOR THAT I THINK IS REALLY
GREAT.
AND AGAIN, THESE BUILDINGS ARE
GOING TO BE AROUND FOR DECADES
THINKING ABOUT WHAT THAT LOOKS
LIKE FOR FUTURE ELECTRIFICATION
OF OTHER PARTS OF YOUR BUILDING
I THINK IS REALLY USEFUL.
SO THAT'S GOOD TO KNOW.
DO YOU FIND THAT YOU HAVE
PEOPLE LOCKING THEIR BAGS UP
OUTSIDE LIKE THE REASON I'M
ASKING IS BECAUSE THERE'S THE
EXPERIENCES THAT YOU HAVE TO
HAVE, RIGHT?
LIKE PROVIDING THE BIKE PARKING
WHERE PEOPLE WANT IT IS REALLY
IMPORTANT.
AND SO I'M CURIOUS ABOUT WHAT
THE EXPERIENCE HAS I REALIZED I
DID NOT ANSWER YOUR QUESTION.
YOU ASKED WHERE THE BIKE ROOMS
ARE LOCATED.
THEY DO NOT ANSWER THAT.
SO LET ME ANSWER THE QUESTION.
THEY ARE CONVENIENTLY LOCATED
ON THE FIRST FLOOR WITH DIRECT
ACCESS TO AN EXTERIOR AREA
OF THE BUILDING.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS WE WANTED
TO DO IN ADDITION TO AGAIN
MEETING THE DEMANDS OF OUR
TENANTS MULTIPLE USE
OF BICYCLES WE ALSO DIDN'T WANT
TO HAVE TENANTS BRINGING
BICYCLES UP AND DOWN IN THEIR
UNITS.
IT'S IT'S IT'S IT
TAKES A HEAVY
TOLL ON COMMON AREAS OF THE
BUILDING.
IT'S INCONVENIENT FOR
CIRCULATION.
IT ALSO TAKES A TOLL ON THE
UNITS.
I MEAN OCCUPIES A SPACE THAT
YOU WANT TO HAVE STORAGE OR
USABLE SPACE TO LIVE IN.
SO NOW THOSE ROOMS ARE THE
FIRST FLOOR.
THERE'S RACKS IN THOSE ROOMS SO
YOU CAN WALK YOUR BICYCLE
INDIVIDUALLY.
OK, AND I ON THE WHEN IT LOOKS
LIKE THERE'S AN ENTRANCE FROM
THE EXTERIOR LIKE I GUESS THIS
WOULD BE LIKE THE NORTH SIDE.
YES.
IS THERE ANY DO YOU HAVE TO GO
IN, LOCK YOUR BIKE UP AND GO
BACK OUTSIDE TO GET UPSTAIRS
AND HOW DOES THAT COMPARE TO
KIND OF WHERE THE HOW IT WORKS
IN THE OTHER BUILDINGS?
RIGHT.
SO YOU WOULD ENTER THAT ROOM
THAT'S WHERE YOU LOCK IT UP AND
THEN FROM THERE YOU HAVE SO YOU
HAVE ACCESS TO THE ROOM FROM
THE OUTSIDE.
YOU ALSO HAVE ACCESS FROM THE
ROOM TO THE CORRIDOR OF THE
BUILDING AND GENERALLY SPEAKING
THE ROOMS ARE LOCATED
REASONABLY CLOSE TO ELEVATORS
SO YOU CAN WALK INTO THE COMMON
AREA AND GET ON THE ELEVATOR TO
GET TO YOUR FLOOR.
CERTAINLY IN THIS BUILDING IT'S
RIGHT NEAR AN ELEVATOR.
OK, I MEAN I REMEMBER I LIKE
IT.
I LIKE PART OF THIS IS NOT IT'S
ALSO JUST TO SEE HOW THINGS ARE
FUNCTIONING IN THE REAL WORLD.
RIGHT.
IF THEY GET USED THAT IT'S NOT
IN THE BASEMENT BUT IT'S AT
GROUND LEVEL THAT IT'S
ACCESSIBLE FROM OUTSIDE AND
FROM INSIDE.
I LIKE THAT JUST TO BE
SOMETHING THAT GETS USED.
BUT I'M I USER EXPERIENCE HERE
THE THE THAT YOU ALREADY HAVE
SOME BUILDINGS FUNCTIONING LIKE
SEE HOW THAT'S WORKING.
IT'S JUST HELPFUL FOR US TO
THINK ABOUT HOW THIS WORKS AND
OTHER DEVELOPMENTS AND WHAT
WHERE WE SHOULD BE PUSHING FOR
THINGS SO UM I I COULD USE
SURVEYS TO COMMENT ABOUT RETAIL
AND AND THE BALANCE.
I CAN'T SAY IT BETTER.
THE ONLY OTHER THING THAT I
WOULD SAY IS MY RECOLLECTION
AND THIS IS FOR STAFF MY
RECOLLECTION OF THE DISCUSSION
OF THIS SITE BACK IN TWENTY
SEVENTEEN THIS WASN'T REALLY
THE THE BUILDING THAT WAS SO
HEAVILY DISCUSSED.
WHAT I RECALL IN THIS BUILDING
WAS REALLY THE CLADDING ON IT
AND I DON'T KNOW IF THIS IS
JUST A COMMISSIONER BILSTEIN
TALKING ABOUT BROWN MATERIALS
BUT I MEAN IT'S PRETTY CODED SO
IT'S ALL FEELS LIKE DECADES AGO
BUT YEAH.
GO AHEAD.
I CAN I REMEMBER MAKING A
COMMENT THAT I DIDN'T RELATE TO
THE REST OF THE DEVELOPMENT
VERY WELL AND THAT YOU SAID
THAT YOU WERE KIND OF LOOKING
FOR CONTRAST BECAUSE IT WAS
KONGOS AND NOT RENTAL.
CLEARLY IT'S A DIFFERENT KETTLE
OF FISH NOW IN TERMS OF YOU
KNOW THAT THAT IT'S MUCH MORE
CONSISTENT WITH THE REST OF THE
PROJECT.
BUT IT WAS IT WAS TAN BRICK I
OFFICE AND YES, I DID HAVE AN
OPINION ABOUT THAT TOO SO YEAH.
BUT I THINK THINGS CHANGE OVER
THE COURSE OF THE SIX YEARS NOW
RIGHT.
I USUALLY AM PRETTY SKEPTICAL
OF WHEN WHEN FOLKS COME BACK IN
AND WHAT CHANGES.
I THINK THE KEY THINGS THAT WE
WERE TALKING ABOUT ON THIS SITE
HAVE ALREADY HAPPENED TO THE
PLAN THAT WAS ORIGINALLY
DEVELOPED AND IF ANYTHING FROM
MY OPINION THIS IS ACTUALLY
THIS IS A THIS IS A BETTER
BUILDING THAN WHAT WE THOUGHT
AND AS PART OF A WHOLE AGAIN
THAT WAS MIXED USE IN WHOLE
WITH SOME WITH SOME RETAIL
COMPONENTS.
I THINK THE INCREASED NUMBER
OF USES WITHOUT ADDING THE
ADDITIONAL PARKING GIVING TIME
TO FIGURE OUT HOW MUCH PARKING
YOU'RE ACTUALLY USING IS REALLY
BENEFICIAL.
AND SO I'M I'M COMFORTABLE WITH
THIS PROJECT MOVING FORWARD.
ANYBODY ELSE?
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT DOES
HAVE A COUPLE I THINK EASY
QUESTIONS FOR YOU.
THE BUILDING IS A BUILDING
THAT'S CURRENTLY YES IT IS BUT
PERCENTAGE LEASED UP IS THAT
BUILDING IS A COMPLETELY FULL
IT'S ESSENTIALLY FULL.
IT FLUCTUATES A LITTLE BIT AS
WE GET INTO THE LEASE AND TURNS
THAT HAPPENED AT THIS TIME
OF YEAR BUT ESSENTIALLY FULL
AND THEN JUST CURIOUS I
PROBABLY KNOW THE ANSWER TO
THIS BUT WHAT SPARKED THE
DESIRE TO WANT TO CHANGE FROM
CONDOS INTO THIS BUILDING ALSO
BEING RUN THE CONDOS JUST
DIDN'T WORK.
SO WHEN WE WENT THROUGH THE
APPROVALS IN TWENTY SEVENTEEN
WE WE MADE A COMMITMENT THAT WE
WERE GOING TO LEAD OFF WITH THE
CONDO DEVELOPMENT AND WE DID
AND YOU KNOW, THE SHORT ANSWER
IS WE JUST WE COULD NOT
GENERATE THE SUFFICIENT
PRE-SALES WE NEEDED TO MOVE THE
PROJECT FORWARD COULD HAVE A
LONG DISCUSSION.
I'M HAPPY TO EVEN TALK ABOUT IT
AFTERWARDS.
THE REASONS WHY I WISH I COULD
WRITE THE ALGORITHM WE DAVID
AND I WOULD HAVE GOTTEN IT
RIGHT TO BEGIN WITH BUT IT
DIDN'T WORK AND SO THEN WE WERE
CONSIDERING WHAT THE VARIOUS
OPTIONS COULD BE TO
SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP THE
PROPERTY AND IT BECAME CLEAR
JUST GIVEN THE MARKET DYNAMICS
AND OUR OWN EXPERIENCE WITH THE
FIRST TWO PHASES THE DATE THAT
THIS WAS SEEM TO BE THE PRUDENT
APPROACH AND AND THEN THE TWO
PRINCIPAL CHANGES WHICH WE KEEP
COMING BACK TO THE INCREASE IN
DENSITY AND THE REDUCTION IN
PARKING WORK, THERE'S A
COMPLETE ALIGNMENT.
I MEAN THOSE CHANGES ALLOW
PHASE TO BE SUCCESSFULLY
CHANGED TO ANOTHER KIND
OF RESIDENTIAL USE AND THEY
ALSO ALIGN WITH THE CITY'S
PRIORITIES.
SO IT SEEMS LIKE AN EXCELLENT
FIT.
KEEP HEARING IT OVER AND OVER
AND YOU'RE SEEING THE DEMAND
FOR THAT IS BUILDING SEE IT'S
CURRENTLY I REALLY DO
APPRECIATE THE KIND OF PHASED
APPROACH BECAUSE IN
UNDERSTANDING IT THIS IS REALLY
LIKE JUST FOR YOUR PROPERTY WE
CAN'T NECESSARILY EXTRAPOLATE
IT BUT WE KIND OF SEEING HOW
THE DEMAND HAS BEEN FOR
PARKING.
IT'S JUST KIND OF LIKE A GOOD
CHECK I THINK FOR US.
SO I THINK IT'S A UNIQUE
CIRCUMSTANCE TO HAVE THAT AND
OBVIOUSLY IT CAME WITH A LOT
OF RISK BECAUSE THE PARKING WAS
ALL BUILT WITH THE FIRST PHASE
OF IT DIDN'T GO WELL.
THAT WAS A RISK CALCULATED IS
THAT DAVID AND I TOOK THIS
ANCILLARY BENEFIT OF BEING ABLE
TO GAUGE THE REAL DEMAND AND
HELP US OUT.
SO I THINK THE LOCATION LIKE
KIND OF THERE ARE THINGS YOU
CAN WALK TO AND BIKE TO AND
IT'S CLOSE SO IT MAKES SENSE
THAT YOU'RE NOT SEEING AS MUCH
DEMAND FOR PARKING IS MAYBE WE
MIGHT HAVE THOUGHT THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE LEE GO AHEAD.
SURE.
JUST ONE OF THE SITE SEE ONE
OF YOURS DISTRICT IN PENN STATE
WHICH IS THE DISTRICT'S
INTENDED TO ENCOURAGE THE
ORDERLY CLUSTERING AND
PLACEMENT OF HIGH DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL AND COMPLEMENTARY
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT NEAR THE
CAMPUS BUSINESS DISTRICT.
SO IN READING THIS JUST
OBJECTIVELY IT DOES LOOK TO
PLACE HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL.
I WILL GO BACK RETAIL IS THE
COMPONENT OF PUBLIC BENEFIT OR
PLACEMAKING BENEFIT AND JUST
WANTED TO ASK SIMPLY HAVE THERE
BEEN CONSIDERATIONS DURING THE
PROCESS AND WHAT LED YOU GUYS
TO SAY?
I'M NOT SURE THAT'S GOING TO
WORK BUT THAT'S A GREAT
QUESTION.
AND THIS GOES BACK TO FOR THOSE
OF YOU WHO ARE IN THE
DISCUSSION THE TWENTY SEVENTEEN
YOU'LL REMEMBER THERE'S A WIDE
RANGE OF OPINIONS ON HOW MUCH
RETAIL SHOULD BE IN THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
THERE ARE DEFINITELY PEOPLE
SOME SPOKE TONIGHT I COMPLETELY
RESPECT THEIR OPINION THAT
THEY'D LIKE TO SEE MORE.
THERE ARE ALSO MANY PEOPLE TO
THINK THAT WHAT WE'VE PROVIDED
IS APPROPRIATE.
IT REALLY BECOMES A FUNCTION
OF THE SHOPPING CENTER WAS A
DESIRE AMENITY UNTIL IT WASN'T
AND THERE CAME A POINT WHERE IT
COULDN'T BE SUSTAINED.
IF IT COULD HAVE BEEN SUSTAINED
THEN THIS PROJECT WOULDN'T BE
DEVELOPING.
THERE WOULD BE SUCCESSFUL
SHOPPING.
THE NEXT ITERATION OF THE
PROJECT ONE THAT FAILED BEFORE
OURS WAS VERY HEAVILY
COMMERCIAL HOTELS, RETAIL
OFFICE, THE WHOLE THING.
IT COULD NEVER GET OFF THE
GROUND.
CONVENIENTLY IT WAS BLAMED ON
THE RECESSION IF THAT PROJECT
HAD STARTED CONSTRUCTION IT
WOULD HAVE BEEN A WHITE
ELEPHANT.
EVERYONE WOULD HAVE BEEN VERY
UNHAPPY.
IT WAS NOT SUSTAINABLE WHEN WE
TOOK OUR OPPORTUNITY TO WORK ON
IT REALLY THINKING ABOUT HOW DO
YOU MAKE RETAIL SUCCESSFUL AND
IT WASN'T ABOUT HOW MUCH TO
PROVIDE AS MUCH AS HOW DO WE
PROVIDE WHATEVER WE PROVIDE.
LET'S MAKE SURE IT'S SUCCESSFUL
SUCCESSFUL MEANING THAT IT CAN
BE LEASED AT A MARKET RATE AND
THAT YOU HAVE HIGH QUALITY
TENANTS DEMAND THE SPACE AND SO
AS YOU WOULD KNOW THIS IS WHAT
YOU DO EVERY DAY.
YOU HAVE TO SEE IT.
IT HAS TO BE IN AN AREA THAT
HAS SIGNIFICANT TRAFFIC AROUND
IT NOT JUST FOR TRAFFIC,
ESPECIALLY VEHICULAR TRAFFIC
AND YOU HAVE TO BE ABLE TO PARK
IT HAS TO BE CONVENIENT.
IT JUST SO HAPPENS THAT THAT
INTERSECTION OF MAIDEN LANE AND
BROADWAY AND PLYMOUTH ROAD
THAT'S WHERE BROADWAY HAS
SURFACE PARKING IS NOT INCLUDED
IN OUR PARKING COUNTS.
BUT THAT SURFACE PARKING IS A
VERY IMPORTANT PART OF WHY WE
HOPE THAT THAT RETAIL CAN BE
SUCCESSFUL THERE.
ANYONE WHO KNOWS THOSE STREETS
IT'S A BIT CIRCUITOUS TO DRIVE
DOWN MAIDEN LANE.
IT'S LIKE HOW DO I GET THERE
AND YOU HAVE TO SORT OF LEARN
YOU HAVE TO GO ON AND CUT
AROUND BROADWAY NOW FOR
DESTINATION TOWN BELIEVE ME
PEOPLE HAVE FOUND PLATE.
EVERYBODY LOVES THAT
RESTAURANT.
WE'RE VERY HAPPY TO HAVE JANE
KIM AS OUR TENANT.
SHE'S GREAT AND SHE'S THE
PROPRIETOR OF ORANGE MARKET
THAT'S GOING TO OPEN UP SOON SO
PEOPLE WILL FIGURE IT OUT BUT
IT'S NOT EASY SO WE HOPE THAT
THE COMBINATION OF THE PARKING
AND THE VISIBILITY CAN OFFSET
SOME OF THE CIRCUITOUS NATURE
AS FAR AS A NUMBER OF SQUARE
FEET WE HAD TO SET UP SO THAT
WE COULD HAVE THREE RETAIL
TENANTS.
THE MARKET'S GOING TO COMBINE
TO END UP WITH TWO SPACES WE
THINK BASED UPON THE INTEREST
IN THE SITE RIGHT NOW THAT
WE'VE WE'VE GOT THE RIGHT
AMOUNT OF RETAIL SPACE COULD
SOMEBODY ARGUE THAT THERE COULD
HAVE BEEN A LITTLE BIT MORE YOU
KNOW, WE COULD HAVE THOSE
DEBATES?
I WOULD JUST ARGUE THAT IF YOU
LOOK AT OUR PORTFOLIO WE ARE IN
MIXED USE DEVELOPER OUR
PROJECTS SOME PROJECTS HAVE
GROCERY ANCHORED SHOPPING
CENTERS AS THE RETAIL
COMPONENT.
SOME HAVE GRADE LEVEL
COMMERCIAL.
IT VARIES IF WE BELIEVE THAT
THERE WAS DEMAND FOR HOWEVER
MANY SQUARE FEET OF RETAIL WE
WOULD DEVELOP IT NOT ONLY
BECAUSE IT WOULD BE SUCCESSFUL
BUT FRANKLY THE MORE SUCCESSFUL
RETAIL IS THE MORE VALUABLE THE
APARTMENTS ARE RIGHT.
THE THE EXTENT
THAT YOU CAN
WALK DOWNSTAIRS AND CONSUME
SOME VALUABLE SERVICE LIKE
ORANGE MARKET FOR EXAMPLE,
IT'LL BE INVALUABLE.
SO THERE'S NO RELUCTANCE TO
CREATE RETAIL.
IT'S SOMETIMES I THINK THE WAY
IT GETS EXPRESSED IS SOMEHOW WE
CONSCIOUSLY CHOSE NOT TO BUILD
RETAIL.
IT REALLY WASN'T THAT WE'D BE
HAPPY TO HAVE MUCH MORE IF
THERE WERE DEMAND FOR IT.
WHAT I ARGUED AT THE TIME WHAT
I SEE HAPPENING AND I THINK
SOMEONE MENTIONED ITERATIVE
DEVELOPMENT BUT YOU KNOW,
THERE'S THE STRIP CENTER ON
BROADWAY.
THERE'S NEW RETAIL WE'RE
CREATING.
THERE'S INFORMATION ENTROPY.
THERE ARE PROPERTIES AS YOU
MOVE DOWN BROADWAY TOWARD THE
BRIDGE YOU HAVE TO GAS STATIONS
OR THE REPAIR SHOP YOU HAVE THE
NORTH SIDE GRILL BLOCK THINGS
ARE THERE.
YOU GET A LITTLE FARTHER TO THE
BRIDGE.
YOU HAVE AND YOU'LL START IN
LOWERTOWN PROPERS ALREADY UNDER
CONSTRUCTION RIGHT ON THE NORTH
SIDE BLOCK.
SO THAT IS WHAT I PREDICTED IS
THAT RATHER THAN TRY TO
ACCOMPLISH IT ALL IN ONE
DEVELOPMENT I'D SAY WE HAVE TO
HAVE TWENTY THOUSAND FEET LET'S
SAY JUST BECAUSE THAT NUMBER
BEAR SOME RESEMBLANCE TO WHAT
THE PERCENTAGE OF THE SHOPPING
CENTER WE SAID LET'S DO WHAT'S
SUCCESSFUL AND WE SEE THAT
PERMEATING DOWN BROADWAY.
THE LAST THING WE WANTED TO DO
WE WANTED TO AVOID THE MISTAKES
OF THE GEORGE SO I ASSUME
EVERYONE WAS WELL TENSION FROM
THE YOU KNOW, ALL THE ALL THE
PARTIES INVOLVED.
BUT YOU KNOW THAT RETAIL
COMPLETELY FAILED IN EVERY WAY
FOR ALL THE REASONS YOU KNOW,
IT'S BELOW GRADE CIRCUITOUSLY.
THERE'S NO SIGNAGE.
THERE'S TOO MUCH OF IT.
IT'S DEEP INTO THE SITE AND WE
DIDN'T WE DIDN'T WANT TO REPEAT
THOSE MISTAKES.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
IT'S IMPORTANT FOR US TO
RECOGNIZE THE PEOPLE THAT NEED
TIME TO COME HERE AND COMMENT.
SO I CERTAINLY DID WANT TO ECHO
AND REALLY KIND OF TALK ABOUT
THOSE CONCERNS.
SO I APPRECIATE RESPONSE WITH
RESPECT TO RETAIL.
OTHER QUESTION I ACTUALLY HAD
AND THIS IS ACTUALLY FOR STAFF
WE DID HEAR ACTUALLY THERE WAS
COMMENTS REGARDING WIND TUNNELS
.
I WAS WONDERING IF THERE'S EVER
ANY DISCUSSIONS OR ANALYSIS
RELATED TO WIND TUNNEL
CREATION.
I MEAN WE'RE IT'S WINDY TODAY.
IT'S MAY IN MICHIGAN.
BUT JUST JUST WONDERING IF
THERE'S ANY KIND
OF CONSIDERATIONS TOWARDS THAT
AND WHAT THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT
AS WE GET TOWARDS MORE
DENSIFYING IF THERE IS ANY KIND
OF CONSIDERATIONS TOWARDS THAT
.
WHAT I HAVE IS ONLY ANECDOTAL.
THERE HAS BEEN ONE PROJECT IN
THE CITY IN MY TENURE THAT
THERE WAS SIGNIFICANT WIND
TUNNEL CONCERNS.
I THINK THAT STAFF AND THAT
APPLICANT TRIED TO REACH OUT
AND FIND A SOMEONE WHO COULD
STUDY THAT.
I KNOW THAT STAFF TOOK A SHOT
AND CONTACTED FOLKS IN THE
CHICAGO PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
THERE IS NO SCIENCE FOR
SUDDENLY WIND TUNNELS AS THEY
RELATE NOT LIKE YOU CAN DO A
SHADOW STUDY IF A BUILDING AND
EVEN IF WE HAD A WIND TUNNEL
STUDY, IT IS NOT A STANDARD
OF APPROVAL FOR FOR BETTER OR
WORSE BUT IT IS NOT A STANDARD
OF APPROVAL.
IT'S WELL I'LL LEAVE IT AT THAT
SO I DON'T HAVE SCIENCE FOR
THAT AND I DON'T HAVE A
STANDARD OF APPROVAL TO INCLUDE
THAT AS A FACTOR.
GOTCHA.
THANK YOU AGAIN.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO ME TO
RECOGNIZE THE COMMENTS IT'S
MADE AGAIN I KNOW IT TAKES A
LOT TO COME OUT HERE AND
CIVICALLY ENGAGED.
THANK YOU FOR THAT BASED ON
AGAIN MY READING OF THE
DISTRICT CONTENT ENCOURAGING
ORDERLY CLUSTERING AND
PLACEMENT OF HIGH DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL AND COMPLEMENTARY
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT NEAR THE
CAMPUS BUSINESS DISTRICT.
I BELIEVE THIS COMPLY WITH THAT
PARTICULAR INTENT STATEMENT.
I THINK THE ADDITION
OF ADDITIONAL UNITS IS
IMPORTANT.
THANK YOU AGAIN FOR YOUR
EXPLANATION REGARDING RETAIL.
IT IS TOUGH TO FIND OPERATORS
THAT CAN OPERATE GOOD HEALTHY
RATIO.
WE GENERALLY TRY TO TARGET FIVE
TO EIGHT PERCENT OF GROSS SALES
IF MARKET RATES WILL BE THIRTY
FIVE FORTY TRIPLE AND THAT
MEANS THEY HAVE TO GENERATE
FIVE TO SIX HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT
IN SALES.
SO THE QUESTION IS CAN YOU FIND
AN OPERATOR THAT CAN
EFFECTIVELY WORK AT THOSE AND
DO YOU HAVE THE ABSORPTION
READILY AVAILABLE FOR THAT?
SO I CERTAINLY AND SATISFIED
WITH THE PETITIONER'S THOUGHT
PROCESS REGARDING CONSIDERING
RETAIL FOR THIS PARTICULAR AREA
.
ASIDE FROM THAT I BELIEVE I'VE
COVERED MOST OF THESE SO I
THINK THAT'S PRETTY MUCH IT FOR
ME.
THANK YOU, MR. EVANS.
THANK YOU.
I WANT TO START JUST MAYBE WITH
A PERSONAL ANECDOTE WHICH IS
THAT I WROTE FOR FIVE YEARS AT
TWELVE SIXTEEN BROADWAY WHICH
IS A FEW STEPS FROM THIS
PROJECT.
BOTH MY CHILDREN WERE BORN IN
THAT HOUSE LITERALLY AND I CAN
TELL YOU THAT AS A RESIDENT
OF THAT STREET I ASK MYSELF
WHAT HOW WOULD I FEEL ABOUT
WALKING DOWN THAT STREET AND
ENCOUNTERING WHAT WAS AT THE
TIME I LIVED THERE A HUGE EMPTY
JAMLING LOT TO WHAT IT IS NOW
AND I I HONESTLY CAN'T SAY THAT
I WOULD BE HAPPY ABOUT IT BUT I
BUT I JUST WANT TO SO I GUESS I
WANT TO SAY I KIND OF RELATE TO
THE PERSONAL FEELINGS AND
EMOTIONS AND REACTIONS AROUND
THINGS THAT PEOPLE IN YOUR
NEIGHBORHOOD IN THE WAY THAT
CHANGES THE CHARACTER OF THE
STREET THAT YOU LIVE ON AND HOW
IMPORTANT THAT IS TO YOUR DAILY
LIFE.
THAT SAID, I FEEL LIKE MY ROLE
UP HERE IS TO WEIGH THE COSTS
AND BENEFITS, WEIGH THE PROS
AND CONS.
I THINK IT'S ALMOST NEVER THAT
WE VOTE UP HERE WITHOUT ANY
UNDERSTANDING, ANY TRADEOFF.
THERE'S ALMOST ALWAYS A
TRADEOFF FOR WHAT WE'RE DOING.
SO IN THIS DECISION I THINK
THAT ON THE KIND OF BENEFIT
SIDE THE INCREASED DENSITY IS A
HUGE BENEFIT TO OUR COMMUNITY.
SO THE ADDITIONAL UNITS, THE
SWITCH FROM CONDOS TO
APARTMENTS AND I THINK ALTHOUGH
NOT AS MANY AS WE WOULD LIKE I
THINK THE ADDITION OF SIX
AFFORDABLE UNITS THAT WOULD NOT
EXIST OTHERWISE IS ALSO A
BENEFIT ON THE ON THE ON THE
KIND OF COST SIDE.
I MEAN I THINK WHAT I'M SENSING
FROM THE COMMUNITY AND I YOU
KNOW, LIKE COMMISSIONER, WE
REALLY APPRECIATE EVERYBODY WHO
SPOKE BOTH KIND OF WITH THEIR
CONCERNS AND ALSO WITH IN
SUPPORT OF THIS PROJECT IS THAT
THERE'S A TREMENDOUS RESIDUAL
FRUSTRATION AND ANGER ABOUT THE
HISTORY OF THIS PROJECT AND I
DON'T THINK THAT VOTING DOWN
THIS THIRD BUILDING IS GOING TO
REMEDY THE KIND OF HARM THAT
HAS ALREADY BEEN CAUSED BY THAT
.
SO I'M AWARE OF THAT AND I SEE
THAT.
BUT I THINK THE THINGS THAT
WE'RE BEING KIND OF ASKED TO
CONSIDER THAT WE SHOULD BE
DEMANDING THIS PROJECT LIKE
ADDITIONAL MIXED-USE OR
ADDITIONAL COMMERCIAL OR
BUILDING ELECTRIFICATION ARE
ACTUALLY OUTSIDE THE SCOPE
OF WHAT THIS BODY CAN DO.
WE CAN'T REQUIRE BUILDING
ELECTRIFICATION.
THIS IS NOT A BUDDY AND I THINK
WE WERE JUST GIVEN A REASONABLE
EXPLANATION FOR THE AMOUNT
OF COMMERCIAL THAT IS GOING TO
BE INCLUDED IN THIS PROJECT.
I THINK I SUPPORT THE MOTION
BUT I ALSO JUST WANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I DO BUT I
UNDERSTAND THAT TRADE OFFS AND
I WANTED TO MAKE MY RATIONALE
TRANSPARENT.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
RIGHT.
I I HAVE A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS
THAT I WOULD LIKE SOME CLARITY
ON MR. GARBER TALKED ABOUT THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS, THE
15 AND THEN THE ADDITIONAL SIX
THAT ARE COMING AND THEN
COMMISSIONER DESH ASKED YOU
ABOUT IT AND THEN YOU ANSWERED
CAN YOU JUST CLARIFY WHAT WHAT
YOU UNDERSTOOD MR. GARBER'S
QUESTION TO BE BECAUSE HE
IBRAHAM ASK WHERE IS THE PUBLIC
MONEY FOR THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING?
AND THEN I DIDN'T UNDERSTAND
YOUR RESPONSE TO THAT BUT
EVERYBODY ELSE DID SO I WAS
CONFUSED.
THAT'S OK.
SO THE THE ANSWER IS THERE IS
NO PUBLIC FUNDING FOR THE
ADDITIONAL SIX UNITS FOR
ADDITIONAL SIX UNITS BUT THE
PUBLIC FUNDING IS THAT THROUGH
THE TITH HAVE PAID FOR THE
FIFTEEN.
RIGHT OK SO YOU ARE DONATING OR
ALLOCATING AS A DEVELOPER THE
ADDITIONAL SEX.
YES OK THANK YOU.
THE SECOND QUESTION WAS ABOUT
THE SUSTAINABILITY VIA THE
SOLAR PANELS AND OBVIOUSLY
COMMISSIONER MILLS SPENT SOME
TIME WITH YOU THERE BUT AGAIN I
WAS CONFUSED BECAUSE I THINK I
HEARD YOU SAY THAT YOU WEREN'T
ABLE TO GET THE FUNDS FOR THE
ROOF THROUGH THE TENTH IN
TWENTY SEVENTEEN.
CORRECT.
BUT THEN WERE THERE OTHER AREAS
TO PREVENT YOU FROM BUILDING IT
YOURSELF OR THE OTHER ECONOMIC
BARRIERS?
I MEAN TWENTY SEVENTEEN TO
AGAIN TO I'M TALKING ABOUT NOW
I THINK I UNDERSTOOD WHAT YOUR
ANSWER WAS SO THE BARRIER NOW
IS YOU CAN'T THE BUILDINGS
BUILT SO YOU CANNOT BUILD A
ROOF NOW ON TOP OF THE PARKING
STRUCTURE TO GET THAT THIRTY
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET.
NO WE CAN'T BE NO OK I THINK
THAT'S IT.
ANYBODY.
YES OK I JUST HAVE A UM I WE
CAN'T LEGISLATE THE
ELECTRIFICATION BUT I WOULD
LIKE TO MAKE YOU UNCOMFORTABLE
I GUESS I'M SAYING BECAUSE I
KNOW WE CAN'T MAKE YOU DO THAT.
I KNOW ALSO THAT YOU'RE IN A
UNIQUE POSITION IN THAT YOU HAD
THIS GO THROUGH BEFORE AND A
LOT OF YOUR INFRASTRUCTURE WAS
PUT IN BEFORE WHICH IN MY MIND
IS A DIFFERENT THING IN SOME
WAYS THAN OTHER PROJECTS.
AND SO THAT'S PART OF WHY I'M
NOT GOING TO BE QUITE AS VOCAL
AS I USUALLY WOULD BE ON THIS
BECAUSE I AM AWARE OF WHAT IT
MEANS TO GO THROUGH THIS
PROCESS AND THE PLANNING THAT
IS INVOLVED IN ORDER TO BE ABLE
TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN.
SO I'M WONDERING WHAT CAN BE
DONE LIKE YOU KNOW, DO YOU HAVE
GAS STOVES OR
DO YOU HAVE
ELECTRIC STOVES?
ARE THERE WAYS THAT YOUR HOT
WATER HEATERS CAN I MEAN I
THINK THERE'S A REASON THAT MR.
STOLLBERG SAID HE'S CHANGING
HOT WATER HEATERS AND THINGS
LIKE THAT BECAUSE THAT'S PRETTY
LOW HANGING FRUIT AND EASY TO
DO.
HE DID NOT SAY THAT HE IS
CONVERTING ALL OF HIS HEATING
COOLING TO ELECTRIC AND THAT HE
HAS BECAUSE THAT IS A MUCH
HARDER LEFT TO MAKE AND I GET
THAT LIKE SOME THE
INFRASTRUCTURE IS ALREADY PUT
IN FOR SOME OF THOSE THINGS AND
LIKELY YOUR PANELS SIZED FOR
CERTAIN THINGS TOO.
BUT I'M JUST WONDERING WHAT YOU
CAN DO WITHIN THE CONFINES
OF LIKE US NOT BEING ABLE TO
ASK YOU IN TERMS OF MAKING YOU
DO ANYTHING BUT ARE THERE
THINGS THAT YOU CAN DO IN TERMS
OF OTHER WAYS EVEN IF IT'S NOT
THE HEATING AND COOLING PIECE
WHICH IS I KNOW A VERY HEAVY
LIFT IN TERMS OF HOW YOU
STRUCTURE THE BUILDING AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
BUT IN TERMS OF SOME OF THE
OTHER THINGS, ARE THERE WAYS
THAT YOU COULD BECOME MORE
ELECTRIC IN TERMS OF THE THE
WHAT YOU'RE DRAWING FROM OUR
SYSTEM IN TERMS OF GAS?
SURE, I APPRECIATE THE QUESTION
AND WE DO HAVE FOR EXAMPLE IN
THE UNITS WE USE ELECTRIC
DRYERS SO THAT HELPS.
THEY'RE NOT GAS FIRED.
WE ALREADY DO THAT AND WE DID
TALK ABOUT HOW IN THE PARKING
DECK WE FULLY EXPECT THAT THAT
WILL SCALE UP OVER TIME AND YOU
WILL SEE VERY SIGNIFICANT
AMOUNTS OF CHARGING IN THE DECK
OVER TIME.
SO THOSE ARE A COUPLE OF WAYS
THAT WE CAN MAKE MEANINGFUL
STEPS TOWARD THAT.
WHAT ABOUT ALL I MEAN EVEN FROM
TWO YEARS AGO THERE'S A HUGE
AMOUNT OF PRESS AROUND THE
SAFETY OF GAS STOVES, THINGS
LIKE THAT.
I THINK PEOPLE ARE I THINK IT'S
A REALLY DIFFERENT WORLD THAN
IT WAS WHEN YOU CAME THROUGH IN
TWENTY SEVENTEEN WITH SOME
OF THESE THINGS AND FRANKLY THE
WHOLE SUSTAINABILITY PIECE I
THINK HAS CHANGED A WHOLE LOT
SINCE WHEN YOU CAME THROUGH
BEFORE BUT I THINK THERE IS
PUBLIC CONCERN AND PUBLIC
CURIOSITY AND WAY MORE PUBLIC
ACCEPTANCE OF INDUCTION VERSUS
GAS.
AND I'M JUST WONDERING WHAT YOU
KNOW WHAT ARE YOU SEEING FROM
YOUR END AND ARE THERE WAYS
THAT YOU COULD.
I THINK IT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
I HOPE WHAT I'VE CONVEYED I
HOPE I'VE DONE A GOOD JOB
CONVEYING IS A LANDLORD TO BE
SUCCESSFUL WE HAVE TO CATER TO
THE NEEDS OF OUR TENANTS AND
THEIR DESIRES SO WE TALK ABOUT
THE CHARGING ANIMALS BUT IS
THAT'S DEMANDING A LOT MORE TO
THE EXTENT THAT WE WERE TO SEE
THAT THE TENANTS WERE TO DEMAND
INDUCTION COOKING VERSUS THE
GAS RANGES.
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT IF THE
TENANTS IF THERE WAS A HUE AND
CRY TO HAVE THAT KIND
OF AMENITY WE WOULD WE WOULD DO
THAT.
WE HAVEN'T SEEN THAT YET.
WE'VE SEEN TENANTS THAT ARE
PLEASED WITH WITH THE APPLIANCE
PACKAGES AND THE SYSTEMS THAT
WE HAVE IN THE BUILDING.
BUT FOR ANYTHING THAT WE I MEAN
ULTIMATELY THE WHAT THE TENANTS
REALLY IF THERE'S IF THERE'S A
DEMAND FROM THE TENANTS THAT
THEY WANT SOMETHING WE VERY
STRONGLY CONSIDER HOW TO GET IT
TO THEM.
WE WANT THEM TO BE HAPPY.
WE WANT THEM TO CHOOSE OUR
BUILDING OVER OTHER BUILDINGS
WHERE THEY CAN CHOOSE TO LIVE.
I THINK IT'S ONE OF THOSE
THINGS THAT IS ACTIVELY
EVOLVING VERY QUICKLY RIGHT NOW
IN TERMS OF THAT I MEAN JUST IN
THE LAST YEAR I THINK THERE'S
JUST A HUGE AMOUNT OF PRESS
THAT WAS LIKE SILENT TWO YEARS
AGO VERY MUCH AT THE FRINGES.
YOU MIGHT CONSIDER YOURSELF
BEING A LEADER WITH THAT IN
TERMS OF PROVIDING SOME
OF THOSE THINGS FOR PEOPLE
BECAUSE I THINK A LOT OF YOUNG
PEOPLE ARE AND THIS IS I'M
ASSUMING WHO MOST OF YOUR
TENANTS ARE ARE PEOPLE THAT ARE
WORKING AT THE HOSPITAL AND
STUDENTS THAT ARE THERE AND
THINGS LIKE THAT THAT ARE IN
THE MEDICAL SCHOOL.
I THINK THAT'S WHERE THINGS ARE
GOING AND JUST A FROM A
MARKETING PERSPECTIVE, THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT COULD SET YOU
APART FRANKLY FROM OTHER
BUILDINGS THAT ARE AROUND IN
TERMS OF YOUR PACKAGE WITH SOME
OF THOSE THINGS.
I HAVE AN INDUCTION STOVE.
IT WORKS GREAT.
YOU KNOW, IT BOILS WATER SO
MUCH FASTER THAN ANY GAS STOVE
DOES.
SO IT'S SOMETHING TO AGAIN WE
CAN'T MAKE YOU DO THIS STUFF
BUT IT'S SOMETHING THAT YOU ALL
SHOULD REALLY CONSIDER.
I THINK IT'S ACTUALLY AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU IN TERMS
OF WHO YOU'RE MARKETING TO TO
THINK ABOUT SOME OF THOSE
THINGS AND AGAIN LIKE HOT WATER
,THAT'S SOMETHING THAT YOU
MIGHT BE ABLE TO CONSIDER TOO
WITH ELECTRIC ELECTRIFYING THAT
.
SO AGAIN, I KNOW WE CAN'T DO
THESE THINGS BUT I DO WANT TO
PUSH THE ENVELOPE AND JUST SEE
WHAT IS POSSIBLE AND PERHAPS
YOU ALL CAN KIND OF THINK ABOUT
THIS BETWEEN NOW AND AND CITY
COUNCIL IN TERMS OF SOME
OF THESE CONSIDERATIONS.
I'M GENERALLY SUPPORTIVE OF THE
PROJECT.
I THINK THAT WE TOTALLY DENSITY
IN THIS AREA.
I COMPLETELY GET THE RETAIL
THING I APPRECIATE COMMISSIONER
SILVER IS KIND OF SUMMARIZATION
OF THAT.
I'M SUPPORTIVE OF IT IN MANY
WAYS THIS ONE WAY I JUST WISH
THAT YOU COULD BE LEADING A
LITTLE BIT MORE WITH SOME
OF THOSE THINGS.
AND AGAIN, I THINK YOU'RE KIND
OF IN A DIFFERENT CATEGORY IN
TERMS OF WHERE YOU FALL IN THE
APPROVAL PROCESS.
SO I'M CUTTING YOU SOME SLACK
IN TERMS OF MY INTENSITY AROUND
SOME OF THIS STUFF.
BUT I WOULD ASK YOU TO THINK
ABOUT SOME OF THOSE THINGS
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW YOU KNOW YOU
HAVE ABOUT THE STOVES, YOU KNOW
WHAT I'M SAYING?
IT'S LIKE MAYBE YOU HAVE I
DON'T KNOW BUT THERE'S
SOMETHING THERE'S SOME
OPPORTUNITIES THERE THAT I
THINK COULD WORK FOR YOU TOO IN
TERMS OF WHERE THIS IS GOING.
YOU WERE YOU WERE THINKING
AHEAD OF CHARGING I THINK THIS
IS AN AREA WHERE YOU ACTUALLY
COULD BE THINKING AHEAD IN
TERMS OF SOME OF YOUR
APPLIANCES.
OK, UNDERSTOOD.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE OK?
ARE YOU READY FOR A VOTE?
I AM IF YOU ARE EVERYBODY ANY
NOTHING BREWING.
OK, ALREADY LET'S THE MOTION AS
PRESENTED COMMISSIONER LEE YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARKE.
YES COMMISSIONER.
THIS COMMISSIONER.
YES.
COMMISSIONER EVANS.
COMMISSIONER SILVER YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER KNOWS YES.
COMMISSIONER SILVER YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
COMMISSIONER KNOWS YES.
COMMISSIONER GISH YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
I'M SHRINKERS OK WE ARE ON TO
COMMISSIONER GISH YES.
ITEM NUMBER NINE WHICH IS THE
I'M SHRINKERS OK WE ARE ON TO
DOWNTIME PREMIUM EVALUATION TO
ITEM NUMBER NINE WHICH IS THE
RECUSE MYSELF FOR PROJECT
DOWNTIME PREMIUM EVALUATION TO
INTEREST IN THE DISTRICT AREA.
RECUSE MYSELF FOR PROJECT
THANK YOU.
INTEREST IN THE DISTRICT AREA.
WELCOME.
THANK YOU.
AND NOT AS TALL AS THE
GENTLEMAN WHO BEFORE MY NAME IS
MEGHAN THAT'S NICOLA WORTMAN
ASSOCIATES.
I WAS HERE BEFORE YOU ABOUT A
MONTH AGO TO TALK ABOUT
DOWNTOWN PREMIUMS AND WHAT
WE'RE GOING TO DO WE LIKE TO DO
TONIGHT IS TO GO OVER
ASSUMPTION AGREEMENTS AND GOALS
AND POLICY APPROACHES WE REVISE
BASED ON YOUR INPUT AND THEN
TALK ABOUT WHAT POLICY
APPROACHES SHOULD BE DISCUSSED
WITH STAKEHOLDERS AND WHO THE
STAKEHOLDERS SHOULD BE.
SO THEN THERE'S A POWERPOINT
COMING UP.
BUT I CAN ALSO RIFF WITHOUT IT
IN ONE THING THAT WAS IN THE
POWERPOINT THAT WILL BE UP SOON
IS THE MAP OF ELIGIBLE
PROPERTIES FOR PREMIUMS AND
WANTED TO START OUR DISCUSSION
TONIGHT WITH JUST A REMINDER
THAT THIS IS A SMALL AREA
OF THE DOWNTOWN OVERALL THAT A
LOT OF PROPERTIES THAT AREN'T
ELIGIBLE FOR PREMIUMS AT THIS
POINT AND THEN ALSO LAST TIME
WE HAD TALKED ABOUT HOW ZONING
IS A BIT OF A BLUNT FORCE TOOL
AND JUST TO KEEP THAT IN YOUR
MIND AS WE'RE GOING THROUGH
THIS BECAUSE YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT MAYBE HOW TO CHANGE THAT
TOOL BUT IT STILL HAS
LIMITATIONS IN IT BEING ZONING.
SO I HOPE WE CAN ALL AGREE TO
THAT.
IT'S NOT.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT SLIDE ALREADY GONE OVER
THE AGENDA.
YOUR NEXT ONE THIS IS THE MAP
AND SO THE BROWN AREAS ARE THE
GREEN AREAS ARE ALL THE AREAS
THAT ARE DOWN DO YOU WANT TO DO
TO THE GREEN AREAS?
ARE THOSE THAT ARE ELIGIBLE FOR
YOUR PREMIUMS AT THIS POINT AND
THE ONES THAT ARE IN CHARGE SO
THEY'RE GREEN THAT THEY'RE
HATCHED OUT JUST A LITTLE BIT.
THOSE HAVE BEEN DEVELOPED IN
THE PAST FIFTEEN YEARS AND SO
WHEN WE'RE LOOKING FORWARD
PROBABLY THOSE AREN'T GOING TO
BE ELIGIBLE FOR PREMIUMS
BECAUSE THOSE BUILDINGS LIKELY
WILL NOT BE REDEVELOPED.
YES, YEAH.
CAN YOU JUST QUICKLY REMIND ME
WHAT MAKES A PROPERTY
INELIGIBLE FOR PREMIUMS?
YES, ABSOLUTELY.
IT IS AN ELIGIBLE IF IT IS AN
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR IF IT IS
IN THE FLOOD PLAIN AND IN TERMS
OF THE FLOODPLAIN, IT'S EVEN IF
ONE SQUARE INCH OF IT IS IN THE
FLOODPLAIN.
ALEXIS, DID I MISS ANYTHING?
SO I KNOW THAT YOU'RE THE
EXPERT ON IT.
OK, COMMISSIONER.
RIGHT.
HAS A YES ON THIS PLANE.
THERE'S A LOT OF THE CITY THAT
SITS IN THAT.
YES.
AND IS THAT A UDC RESTRICTION
OR IS THAT A STATE RESTRICTION?
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S YOU OR
STAN THAT SO THAT YOU
UNDERSTAND WHERE I WANT TO GO
WITH THE QUESTION CAN WE CHANGE
IT?
YES, OK.
IT IS A SELF-IMPOSED
RESTRICTION SO WE CAN REMOVE IT
.
YES, OK, I WOULD ONLY QUALIFY
THAT NO NO OF THAT WE HAVE
CHOSEN TO SAY ANY PART OF THE
SITE TOUCHES YOU ARE NOT
ELIGIBLE AND I THINK THAT WAS A
CONSCIOUS CHOICE NOT TO PUT ANY
PRESSURE ON DEVELOPMENT IN
CLEAN UP.
I THINK WE CAN CHANGE THAT.
WE CAN CHANGE THAT THOSE
PARAMETERS BUT I DON'T THINK WE
CAN JUST PROMOTE OR ALLOW
DEVELOPMENT LITERALLY IN THE
FLOOD PLAIN WHEN IT'S
PROHIBITED.
BUT WE CAN MODIFY OUR PREMIUM
REGULATIONS TO SAY MAYBE AS
LONG AS THE BUILDING IS NOT IN
THE FLOODPLAIN OR SOMETHING
ALONG THOSE LINES.
SO I DID A WALKING TOUR AND I
ALWAYS GET STREET NAMES WRONG
AND I TRY TO RECALL THEM FROM
MY HEAD SO WE'RE A BLANK SLATE
IS THAT'S FIRST AND PERSONAL
LIBERTY IN THAT WHOLE SECTION
IS LIKE IN THE FLOOD PLAIN EVEN
IF IT'S FIFTEEN FEET ABOVE
GRADE LIKE WE CAN'T EVEN GO UP
BECAUSE ANY PART OF THAT
PROPERTY SITS THERE AND THAT'S
WHAT I'M THAT'S WHAT I'M TRYING
TO UNDERSTAND.
IT SOUNDS LIKE WE'VE IMPOSED A
RESTRICTION ON OURSELVES ON
SOMETHING THAT IF YOU JUST LOOK
DIAGONAL YOU'LL SEE THE LIGHT
IN IT SITTING OUT THERE ON 12
OR 15 FEET AND IT'S BUILT RIGHT
THERE AND WE JUST DISCUSSED FOR
FIFTEEN WASHINGTON WHICH IS
GOING TO BE IN NOT IN THE FLOOD
WAY BUT IN THE FRENCH AND SO I
JUST WANT TO LIKE IN THIS PART
OF THE CONVERSATION I IT WOULD
BE HELPFUL LIKE WHATEVER YOU
BRING BACK TO US WHENEVER WE
SEE IT THAT THERE IS SOME
ACKNOWLEDGMENT THAT THIS IS A
SELF IMPOSED RESTRICTION AND
THAT IF IT'S IN THE UDC IT CAN
BE AMENDED.
NOW THERE MAY BE REASONS WHY WE
DON'T WANT TO DO THAT.
THERE MAY PEOPLE WHO WOULD SAY
NOT TO DO THAT.
I THINK ALL OF THAT COMES AT
THE APPROPRIATE TIME.
I JUST DON'T WANT TO SAY HEY,
ALL OF THIS IS OFF THE TABLE
BECAUSE IT'S IN THE FLOOD PLAIN
WHEN IN FACT WE COULD BUILD
ABOVE WHATEVER THE STATE
WHATEVER THE FEDERAL LAWS WOULD
BE TO MAKE IT SAFE SO AND WE
CAN'T BUILD IN THE FLOODWAY SO
THERE'S A DISTINCTION THERE IN
TERMS OF WHAT COMMISSIONER
WYTCHES SAYING PLAIN AND IN
EACH OF THEM HAVE DIFFERENT
RESTRICTIONS.
COMMISSIONER DISH, I GUESS I
APPRECIATE VERY MUCH BUT
COMMISSIONER WHAT SHE'S
BRINGING UP MAYBE IT WOULD BE
HELPFUL TO HAVE ANOTHER KIND
OF CROSSHATCHING FOR PARCEL'S
THAT A LITTLE BIT OF IT TOUCHES
THE FLOOD PLAIN BECAUSE I THINK
ANYTHING THAT'S ENTIRELY IN THE
FLOODPLAIN IT'S GOING TO BE A
HARD SELL TO PUT A TALL
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING IN THERE
ON STILTS.
OK, SO I'D BE INTERESTED HOW
YOU KNOW HOW MANY IS THAT
REALLY TRUE OF THAT IT'S JUST A
LITTLE BIT RIGHT.
SO WHAT I'M HEARING FROM YOU IS
WHEN WE COME BACK ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT COULD POSSIBLY BE
ON THE TABLE IS WHAT MAKES A
PART PARCEL ELIGIBLE FOR
PREMIUMS AND CAN THE
RESTRICTION THAT'S CURRENTLY
DEALING WITH FLOOD PLEASE BE
ALLEVIATED OR LIFTED ENTIRELY?
WHAT WOULD THOSE WHAT WOULD
THAT LOOK LIKE IN TERMS
OF MAPPING SCENARIOS IS WHAT I
AM ASKING FOR.
YEAH, I HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO
ASK YOU TO DO IT.
I THINK YOU AND I MIGHT BE
ASKING FOR DIFFERENT THINGS.
I THINK YOU'RE ASKING TWO
DIFFERENT MAPS WHERE YOU'RE
ASKING FOR IS IS IS IT POSSIBLE
TO LIFT THAT RESTRICTION
ENTIRELY IN TERMS OF FLOOD
PLAIN AND WHAT I HEAR FROM YOU
IS THAT IT WOULD ALSO BE
INTERESTING TO SEE AND TO SEE
HOW THE FLOOD PLAIN AFFECTS
EACH PARCELS IN WHICH PARCELS
ARE ENTIRELY IN THE FLOODPLAIN
AND WHICH IS IT ONLY A PORTION
WHERE POSSIBLY THE BUILDING
COULD BE BUILT OUTSIDE OF THE
FLOODPLAIN?
YEAH, BECAUSE WE AGAIN ONE
REPRESENTS THE WHOLE CITY AND
THERE ARE PEOPLE OF AND I AM
ONE OF THEM WHO FEELS THAT
CLIMATE CHANGE IS UPON US AND
THE BIGGEST EFFECT NOT JUST
FROM ANECDOTAL RECENT WEATHER
EVIDENCE IS THAT MORE AND MORE
RAIN IS GOING TO BE HOW DO WE
HAVE CLIMATE CHANGE IN
MICHIGAN?
AND I THINK IN TERMS OF FUTURE
PROOFING OUR CITY I DON'T WANT
TO GO SELLING OUR OUR
FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT
WHICH WE JUST PASSED AND SAY
NOW THE BUYER'S REMORSE WE NEED
YOU KNOW, WE REALLY DON'T MIND
IF PEOPLE'S HOUSES GO ME.
SO NOT THAT WE EVER SAID THAT
BUT I THINK IT'S A DIFFERENCE.
NO, I WAS NOT SAYING THAT YOU
WERE SAYING I WAS ATTRIBUTING
THAT TO OURSELVES ON COUNCIL.
OH NO, I DIDN'T KNOW I WAS
DOING.
BUT I DO THINK THAT THE WAY YOU
SPECIFIED IT THAT IF ANY PART
OF THE PERSONAL TOUCHES THE
FLOOD PLAIN THERE'S A
DIFFERENCE TO ME BETWEEN
OF THAT IS IN A FLOOD PLAIN AND
A PARCEL THAT IS TWENTY FIVE OR
10 PERCENT IN FLOOD PLAIN AND
THAT WE SEE WE SEE THAT
DIFFERENCE REFLECTED IN THE WAY
WE ARE.
THE CITY IS CURRENTLY
DEVELOPING CITY OWNED SITES SO
I WOULDN'T FIND THAT
INCONSISTENT WITH THAT PRACTICE
.
OK, SO GREAT.
THANK YOU FOR THE INPUT AND
WE'LL WE'LL PULL THAT INTO THE
PROCESS AS WE GO FORWARD AND IN
TERMS OF GOING FORWARD REALLY
THE PURPOSE OF THE MEETING
TONIGHT IF YOU COULD GO TO NEXT
SLIDE PLEASE AGAIN IS TO
DISCUSS WHAT POLICY OPTIONS
SHOULD BE SHARED WITH
STAKEHOLDERS BECAUSE THAT'S THE
NEXT STEP AND HULU STAKEHOLDERS
SHOULD BE SO THAT'S WHERE WE
WANT TO SPEND THE MEAT OF THE
DISCUSSION TONIGHT.
BUT WE SPENT A LOT OF TIME WITH
YOU LAST MONTH MANITOWOC ARE
BACK AND MAKE SURE THAT WE GOT
THINGS RIGHT IN TERMS
OF ASSUMPTIONS AND GOALS WHEN
THE NEXT SLIDE.
SO WE REVISE THE ASSUMPTIONS
AND I CAN READ THEM OFF IF THAT
WOULD BE HELPFUL AND THEN WHAT
WE REALLY WANT TO KNOW IS ARE
DOES THIS REFLECT WHAT WE
TALKED ABOUT AND ARE THERE ANY
CHANGES THAT ARE NEEDED IN
ORDER FOR US TO GO FORWARD IN
THE PROCESS SO THE FIRST
ASSUMPTION IS THAT AN
EQUILIBRIUM OF DEVELOPMENT
TYPES AND LAND USES IN DOWNTOWN
IS IMPORTANT AND RESIDENTIAL
OFFICE AND COMMERCIAL OUR CORE
USES TO BE CONTINUALLY BALANCED
IN THE DOWNTOWN.
I'M GOING TO PAUSE AFTER EACH
ONE AND ASK FOR COMMENT.
SO ANY COMMENTS ON THIS ONE?
ALL RIGHT, NEXT ONE DEVELOPING
THE DOWNTOWN IS MORE DIFFICULT
AND MORE EXPENSIVE THAN
ELSEWHERE IN THE CITY SINCE THE
LAST AMENDMENTS THE PREMIUMS IN
TWENTY EIGHTEEN THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING KNOWLEDGE PROVIDES
DEDICATED FUNDING SOURCE EXCUSE
ME PROVIDES A DEDICATED FUNDING
SOURCE FOR NECESSARY AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
BUT KNOWLEDGE FUNDS MAY NOT BE
SUFFICIENT TO BE THE SOLE
SOURCE OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FUNDING AND THAT WE CHANGE
BASED ON YOUR INPUT FROM LAST
TIME AND CAN WE PAUSE?
I THOUGHT I SAW SOME MOVEMENT
DOWN AFTER AFTER THE THE SECOND
ONE THAT COMMISSIONER LEE DID I
SEE YOU?
YEAH NO I'M JUST LOOKING AT THE
FORMAT BASICALLY I WAS SAYING
YES OK I'M BORED.
THERE IS A LITTLE MORE
EXPENSIVE THE THING IS MORE
EXPENSIVE SO I WAS JUST OK I
WAS JUST TRYING TO GET THE
FORMAT CORRECT AS FAR
ENGAGEMENT PURPOSES BUT I AGREE
WITH BOTH OF THOSE POINTS ON
THE FIRST ONE QUESTION IS GOING
TO BE WHAT IS EQUILIBRIUM
REALLY MEAN?
RIGHT.
WHAT DOES BALANCE MEAN?
AND I THINK THAT THAT'S KIND
OF ALWAYS THE TRICK IS HOW MUCH
CIVIC SPACES ARE APPROPRIATE.
WHAT IS EQUILIBRIUM TRULY MEAN
AS FAR AS RETAIL OFFICES
SUPPORT RETAIL, A LOT OF THE
RESTAURANTS THAT HEY, WE DON'T
HAVE OFFICE POPULATION BACK TO
YOU TO HYBRID SO WE HAVE
DECREASED LUNCHES.
SO HOW MUCH RESIDENTIAL IS
APPROPRIATE?
SO I THINK STRIKING THAT
BALANCE I AGREE WITH THE
STATEMENT.
I THINK THE ASSUMPTION HOLDS
THE TRICK IS GOING TO BE REALLY
WHAT CONSTITUTES EQUILIBRIUM
AND THAT'S GOING TO BE
CONTINUOUSLY MORPHING.
SO GREEN THINKS IT'S ALSO KIND
INTERESTING TO THINK ABOUT IF
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE THAT
ARE WORKING FROM HOME, DO WE
NEED TO START THINKING ABOUT
NEIGHBORHOODS IN DIFFERENT WAYS
IN TERMS OF SOME OF THOSE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR COMMERCIAL
JUST TO THAT'S OUTSIDE OF WHAT
THIS IS BUT JUST KIND OF A
BIGGER A BIGGER CONVERSATION
FOR US TO THINK ABOUT BECAUSE I
KNOW THAT THAT'S I'VE HEARD
SOME THINGS CALIFORNIA ON
NETWORK LIKE SAN FRANCISCO IT'S
LIKE ALL OF A SUDDEN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD CAFE THING IS
GETTING A LOT MORE INTENSE USE
AND THE DOWNTOWN ONE WAS
BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE WANTING TO
GET OUT OF THEIR HOMES TO BE
ABLE TO INTERACT WITH OTHERS.
SO AGAIN THAT PART OF THIS
THING BUT I THINK IT'S
SOMETHING FOR US TO KIND OF BE
THINKING ABOUT IN TERMS OF THAT
WHOLE BALANCE PIECE THAT YOU
BROUGHT UP.
YEAH, THANKS.
HI.
ASSUMPTION NUMBER FOUR, A
SIGNIFICANT NUMBER PROPERTIES
IN THE DOWNTOWN ARE INELIGIBLE
FOR PREMIUM'S SYNOD'S ALL RIGHT
.
CURRENT DOWNTOWN RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT IS EITHER HIGH END
LOW SKILL RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
OR STUDENT HOUSING.
THE CURRENT MARKET DOES NOT
SUPPORT BUILDING OF ATTAINABLE
HIGH DENSITY HOUSING DOWNTOWN
AND THAT WAS A CHANGE I SEE NOT
AN ATTAINABLE I'M ASSUMING YOU
MEAN SORT OF LIKE MAYBE MAYBE
LIKE THE YEAH SO THAT KIND
OF YEAH.
ATTAINABLE TECHNICALLY MEANS
USUALLY ANYWHERE I THINK ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT AM I THE
60 TO
100 PERCENT AM I THAT YOU CAN
WITH ONE THIRD OF YOUR INCOME
YOU COULD AFFORD PURCHASE
HOUSING WHICH IS A DIFFERENT
DEFINITION THAN WHAT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IS UNDER THAT FEDERAL
DEFINITION AND THIS WAS WHERE
LAST TIME IT SAID MISSING
MIDDLE WE WERE LIKE OH YEAH
YEAH I WAS GOOD AT OK I STILL
DO NOT HAVE A POWER IN THE
FIRST SENTENCE THE SECOND TIME
BUT I DON'T ANYWAY.
OH OK IT'S IT'S TWO THINGS
RIGHT NOW I IN LOW SKILL
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING THE LOW
EITHER IT'S HIGH AND LOW SCALE
THAT'S THERE'S TWO THINGS RIGHT
SO NO COMMENT AND I MAYBE IS
THERE A SLIGHT IS THERE COULD
YOU JUST CHANGE IT AND SAY
STUDENT HOUSING OR HIGH AND LOW
I'M A LOW SKILL RESIDENTIAL
BUILDINGS ADMIN I WOULD USE A
LOT MORE SENSE YES I COULD
AND
I AM FINE WITH FOR COPYEDITING
.
I'M WITH THE TOPIC I DID COMEDY
IN COLLEGE.
I CAN HANDLE IT ALL RIGHT.
SO ATTAINABLE DENSITY IN THE
DOWNTOWN NOT ONLY PROVIDES
SPACES FOR PRESENT AND FUTURE
IN OUR RIGHTS TO LIVE BUT ALSO
INCLUDES INFLUENCES REGIONAL
SUSTAINABILITY BY PROVIDING
ACCESS TO HOUSING IN A WALKABLE
MIXED-USE PLACE.
YEAH OK.
THE LAST PHASE ISN'T CLUNKY
THOUGH.
OK GREAT.
AND THEN CURRENT PREMIUMS ARE
NOT BEING UTILIZED DUE TO A
VARIETY OF REASONS.
PRETTY SIMPLE YEAH.
OK SO WE CAN ALL AGREE TO THESE
ASSUMPTIONS GOING FORWARD AND
AS DOCUMENTATION HAPPENS THESE
ARE THE JUSTIFICATIONS FOR THE
REASONS OF TAKING ACTION THAT
RESULTS OUT OF THE PROCESS.
ALL RIGHT.
GOOD WORK ALL THE NEXT ALSO
LAST TIME WE LOOKED AT A
VARIETY OF GOALS AND YOU
SLIMMED THEM DOWN TO THESE
THREE INCREASE AFFORDABILITY
OF HOUSING DOWNTOWN, INCREASE
SUSTAINABILITY INCLUDING ENERGY
EFFICIENCY IN THE DOWNTOWN AND
INCREASE EQUITY IN THE DOWNTOWN
.
SO I WANTED TO AGAIN MAKE SURE
THAT THESE THREE ARE CORRECT IN
TERMS OF WHAT YOU WANTED IN
TERMS OF GOALS AND THEN ALSO DO
WELCOME ANY COPYEDITING.
I'M SEEING NODS AND USUALLY
TAKES THIS AGREEMENT.
I SEE A THUMBS UP AND THEN I
SEE A FINGER.
YEAH, IN A VERY NICE WAY.
NOT NOT THAT SO I KNOW I JUST
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THIS
WOULD BE ENCOMPASSED IN THIS
WHERE WE'RE THINKING ABOUT
POTENTIAL BE REGIONAL.
ISN'T YOUR DISTRICT WIDE LIKE
GEOTHERMAL OR THINGS LIKE THAT
THAT THEY KIND OF COULD LIKE?
I DON'T IF THAT IS PART OF HOW
WE THINK ABOUT ANY OF THESE
THINGS OR IS THIS ALL PRIVATE
DEVELOPMENT AND NOT LIKE I KNOW
THE D.A. IS DOING SOME SORT
OF STUDY ON THAT I WOULD BE I
JUST THINK THAT IT WOULD IT'S
INTERESTING TO THINK ABOUT HOW
WE COULD HELP FACILITATE THAT
WITHIN THE PRIVATE SECTOR IF WE
WERE ABLE TO HAVE SOME PUBLIC
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT MADE IT
EASIER FOR PEOPLE TO BE ABLE TO
MAKE GOOD CHOICES AROUND
THINGS.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S
COMPLETELY OUTSIDE OF WHAT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT HERE, BUT
EVERYTHING IS A LITTLE
PIECEMEAL THINK THAT WE DO
MINE.
SO I WOULD LOVE TO THINK ABOUT
SOME BIGGER THINGS THAT COULD
TIE SOME STUFF TOGETHER.
I THINK IT'S PART OF INCREASING
SUSTAINABILITY BUT I THINK THAT
WHAT YOU'RE GETTING IS SORT
OF PART OF THE CONVERSATION
OF WITH STAKEHOLDERS.
I MEAN SOME OF THE FEEDBACK WE
WANT TO HEAR.
RIGHT.
WHAT ARE THE OBSTACLES FROM
THOSE PROPERTY OWNERS BEING
ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY DO SO AND
SO I SORT OF SEE THAT AS MAYBE
PART OF THAT CONVERSATION IS
WHAT BEYOND REGULAR THE
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK, WHAT ARE
THE INFRASTRUCTURE ITEMS THAT
THE CITY SHOULD BE THINKING
ABOUT IN ORDER TO ACCOMPLISH
THAT?
YEAH, SO I JUST WANT IT TO BE
KIND OF PART NOT NOT WHAT WE'RE
GETTING NECESSARILY THE KIND
OF THINKING OF HOW WE CAN THE
SET THINGS UP FOR SET PEOPLE UP
FOR SUCCESS.
I CAN JUMP IN WITH A COMMENT.
I FEEL THAT YOUR THAT YOUR
COMMENT IS ENCOMPASSED IN A
GOAL.
YEAH.
BUT YOU HAVE A DETAIL OF HOW TO
ACCOMPLISH THAT GOAL THAT
THERE'S WAYS TO ACCOMPLISH
INCREASES IN ABILITY IN
DOWNTOWN BY DOING IT PRIVATELY
FOR YOUR OWN DEVELOPMENT ON
SITE.
BUT PERHAPS ONE OF THE OPTIONS
ONE OF THE PREMIUMS WOULD BE
SOMEHOW CONTRIBUTING WHETHER
IT'S LAND OR SOMETHING
CONTRIBUTING A PIECE SO THAT
COULD BE JOINED WITH OTHER
PIECES.
SO I DON'T I I THINK THAT'S THE
NEXT STEP BUT I THINK IT'S A
GREAT COMMENT.
BUT AND I THINK THAT THE THE
NUGGET IS IN THE GOAL ABOUT
WHAT YOU'RE FAST FORWARDING TO
MAYBE A IMPLEMENTATION
STRATEGY.
HEY, TOTALLY AGREE WITH THAT
AND I MEANT IT IN THAT WAY.
I WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
WAY THAT WE'RE FRAMING IT
ALLOWS FOR THAT KIND OF THING
TO EVEN BE CONSIDERED I GUESS
IS WHAT I'M THINKING OF SO THAT
YOU KNOW, WHO KNOWS MAYBE ALL
THESE AREAS IN THE FLOODPLAIN
COULD BE USED FOR GEOTHERMAL.
LOTS OF THINGS LIKE THE THERE
MAY BE SOME WAYS FOR US TO KIND
OF THINK ABOUT HOW SYNERGISTIC
OPPORTUNITIES COME UP FOR
THINGS LIKE THAT THAT YOU KNOW,
WE'RE NOT WE WE'RE NOT PUTTING
THE BUILDING AT IT BUT WE CAN,
YOU KNOW, STUFF IT TO THERMAL
AND THAT SOMEHOW THE CITY IS
PART OF THAT.
AND AGAIN, I KNOW THAT THAT'S A
STRATEGY, NOT A GOAL.
BUT I JUST WANT TO BE ABLE TO
KIND OF MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE
NOT JUST THINKING OF OUR LITTLE
PIECEMEAL THINGS AS WE'RE GOING
ALONG PRIVATE SITE BY PRIVATE
SITE BUT ALSO NOT IGNORING
POTENTIAL WAYS FOR US TO
ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO BE ABLE TO
HAVE SUSTAINABLE PRACTICES IN
THEIR BUILDING DESIGNING OH
INFORMATIONALLY.
OH YEAH I DID THAT IN THE FIRST
OK HOW ABOUT AS FAR AS RIBIS
GOES HOW ABOUT JUST INCREASED
HOUSING PERIOD.
I'M JUST WONDERING IF THAT THAT
FOR DISCUSSION BECAUSE
OBVIOUSLY I THINK THERE'S
OVERLAPS RIGHT.
INCREASING EQUITY ALSO MEANS
IMPROVING AFFORDABILITY.
IT MEANS SO SO I MEAN THERE'S
THERE IS A LOT OF OVERLAP.
THE QUESTION IS SHOULD ONE
OF THE GOALS RELATED TO
PREMIUM'S BE JUST TO ADD MORE
HOUSING?
I DON'T KNOW.
JUST SIMPLIFY BUT JUST THROW
THAT OUT THERE.
CAN I PIGGYBACK ON THAT BECAUSE
AND I I DON'T KNOW IF THIS IS
ALREADY IF THIS IS ENCOMPASSED
IN EQUITY OR AFFORDABILITY OR
NOT BUT I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
TO INCREASE THE DIVERSITY
OF HOUSING LIKE DIFFERENT KINDS
OF HOUSING SO THAT IT ISN'T ALL
IT'S NOT JUST THAT THERE'S
EITHER EXPENSIVE STUDENT TOWERS
OR EXPENSIVE LOW RISE CONDOS
BUT IT'S ALSO THAT THERE JUST
ISN'T THERE IS IT MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING?
YEAH.
YOU KNOW, ANY SORT
OF ACCESSIBLE RIGHT OF IT.
I MEAN THE CONDO THAT'S NOT
MULTIFAMILY, IT'S NOT LARGE
SCALE MULTIFAMILY IS WHAT I'M
TRYING TO SAY AND NOT GETTING
OUT.
YEAH I WOULD 100 PERCENT BE
FRIENDLY WITH THAT CONCEPT
INCREASE DIVERSITY OF HOUSING
SO INCREASING HOUSING AND
DIVERSITY.
SO WHAT I'M HEARING ARE THREE
THINGS.
NUMBER ONE IS IT THE VOLUME
OF HOUSING IS IT IS THE SHEER
NUMBER OF UNITS IS IT THE
DIVERSITY OF THE TYPES OF UNITS
ALSO THAT AND IS IT THE
AFFORDABILITY OF THE UNITS THAT
TIES IN WITH BOTH?
I THINK LIKE IT COULD AND IT
COULD NOT.
IT DEPENDS ON HOW YOU LOOK AT
IT IN TERMS OF AFFORDABILITY.
I MEAN THAT HAS TO BE
SUBSIDIZED OR THAT THEY HAVE TO
BE AFFORDABLE IN PERPETUITY
BECAUSE IF YOU ARE JUST
INCREASING THE NUMBER IT COULD
INCREASE THE AFFORDABILITY AT
THAT TIME IN THE MARKET BY
TWENTY YEARS LATER IT MAY NOT
BE GUARANTEED.
AND WHEN WE WENT ROUND BEFORE I
REMEMBER WHEN STAKEHOLDERS WERE
VERY CONCERNED THAT AFFORDABLE
UNITS WERE BUILT NOW WOULDN'T
BE SO IN 20 YEARS.
SO I THINK IT'S THREE CONCEPTS
AMONG YOU.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT FOR YOU
TO DEFINE WHAT'S WHAT'S
IMPORTANT OR WHETHER YOU WANT
ALL THREE OF THOSE DISCUSSED
WITH STAKEHOLDERS.
NOW I DO WANT VOLUME AND
DIVERSITY AND I'M A LITTLE BIT
TORN.
I'M VERY TORN ABOUT
AFFORDABILITY BECAUSE IT'S
AFFORDABILITY STRICTLY
SPEAKING.
I'M NOT SURE THAT WE'RE GOING
TO GET THAT OUT OF WHAT WE'RE
TRYING TO DO HERE, WHICH IS
MAKE A DIFFERENCE TO OUR
PREMIUMS IN DOWNTOWN SAYING
THAT WE CAN'T WE ARE DEVELOPING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING ON CITY
OWNED SITES THAT ARE IN
DOWNTOWN BUT I'M NOT SURE IF
THAT CAN BE ACHIEVED HERE AND
ONE THING THAT I'VE READ WHICH
I NEVER KNOW IS TRUE BUT I
LIKED WHEN I READ IT WAS THAT
THE THINGS THAT YOU BUILD TODAY
AS NICE ATTRACTIVE MARKET
HOUSING IN 20 YEARS THEY'RE
LESS EXPENSIVE THAN WHAT YOU'RE
CURRENTLY BUILDING AND SO SOME
OF THE WAYS THAT WE GET HOUSING
IN A MORE REASONABLE PRICE
RANGE IS SIMPLY THROUGH THE
AGING OF THE STOCK THAT WAS
BUILT AND THAT THE PUBLIC DOES
NOT HOLD IS TRUE FOR SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES THAT CAN HOLD
THEIR VALUE IN A PLACE LIKE
ANN
ARBOR WHERE SUPPLY IS TIGHT.
BUT FOR THE RENTAL HOUSING AT
LEAST SOME OF THE STUDENT STUFF
THAT WE BUILT THAT WAS BUILT 10
YEARS AGO IS RELATIVELY LESS
EXPENSIVE COMPARED TO THE NEW
THINGS SO SO THEIR VOLUME AND
CONSTANT STUFF IN THE PIPELINE
WOULD BE GIVING US
AFFORDABILITY.
THE VOLUME PART WOULD BE GIVING
US AFFORDABILITY THERE SO WOULD
IT BE THEN INCREASE THE
DIVERSITY AND THE NUMBER
OF DWELLING UNITS DOWNTOWN
DOWNTOWN?
YES, THAT MAKES SENSE TO ME SO
YES SIR.
YES, OK, I I WOULD LIKE TO GO
BACK TO COMMISSIONER LEE'S
ORIGINAL RECOMMENDATION WHICH
WAS JUST INCREASING HOUSING
DOWNTOWN.
I THE AFFORDABILITY AND THE
DIVERSITY THE HOUSING CAN BE
CAPTURED IN THE EQUITY AND IN
MY OTHER COMMENT ON THE REVISED
GOAL SINCE THIS IS FROM A
PLANNING POINT OF VIEW THE DO
WE NEED TO ARE THERE PROVISIONS
IN MICHIGAN'S PLANNING LAW THAT
ALLOWS US TO CREATE HEATING AND
COOLING DISTRICTS?
SO WHEN WE GET INTO THE
SUSTAINABILITY, ARE THERE
THINGS THAT WE WOULD NEED TO
CHANGE IN THE UDC TO PERMIT
THOSE POSSIBILITIES?
SO LIKE DETROIT HAS ITS STEAM
SYSTEM RIGHT THAT PROVIDES
HEATING AND COOLING TO LIKE 30
SQUARE MILES IN THE CITY.
IS THAT MANAGED AT SOME LEVEL
WITH THE PLANNING OVERLAY NOW
USUALLY WHAT HAPPENS IS IT'S A
CITY ORDINANCE THAT WOULD
REQUIRE OR USUALLY REQUIRE THAT
ANYTHING IN THAT DISTRICT HOOK
UP TO IT.
SO LIKE FOR INSTANCE, THAT
WOULD BE OUT OF SCOPE FOR US.
THAT WOULD LEAVE OUR TABLE.
YEAH.
SO IN THIS SYSTEM
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND ENERGY
EFFICIENCY, ALL WE'RE LOOKING
AT IS THE DEVELOPMENT OF A I
WOULDN'T SAY THAT THAT'S
NECESSARILY TRUE.
SO LET'S SAY THE DDA IS
SUCCESSFUL IN CREATING A
GEOTHERMAL, GEOTHERMAL
GEOTHERMAL DISTRICT WHICH THEY
CREATE ESSENTIALLY WHAT'S THE
UTILITY LET'S SAY FOR SOME
REASON IT'S AN OPTIONAL IT'S AN
OPT IN.
ONE OF THE THINGS YOU COULD DO
IS THEN TO USE A PREMIUM AS A
WAY FOR AS THE CARROT TO GET
DOWN TO OPT.
NOW THAT'S LIKE THREE HOPS FOUR
THAT'S THREE IFS.
BUT I WOULDN'T SAY THAT YOU
SHOULD CLOSE THE DOOR.
I'M LOOKING AT THE PREMIUMS
BEING A PLACE WHERE YOU CAN
INCENTIVIZE SOME THINGS LIKE
THAT IF YOU CAN'T REQUIRE IT
WOULD BE BETTER TO REQUIRE I
GUESS WHAT I'M WHAT I'M TRYING
TO FIGURE OUT IS ULTIMATELY WE
HEARD FROM THE D.A. THAT THE
THING THAT THEY NEED IN THE DAY
OUR PEOPLE AND THE LANDSCAPE
THAT WE LIVE IN HAS RADICALLY
CHANGED.
THAT IS TO SAY PEOPLE THEY LOST
BETWEEN THREE AND SIX THOUSAND
PERSONS IN THE DOWNTOWN THROUGH
OFFICE AND IF WHAT WE ARE
ULTIMATELY TRYING TO DO IS
REPLACE JUST FOR A PLACEHOLDER
THOSE THREE TO SIX THOUSAND
PEOPLE, THEN I'D LIKE US TO BE
CLEAR THAT THAT IS OUR GOAL IF
OUR GOAL IS MORE THAN THAT THEN
WE THAT THIS IS WHAT WE'RE
DOING.
BUT IN ORDER FOR THE DOWNTOWN
TO BE VIABLE THEY NEED PEOPLE
AND HOUSING DOESN'T REPLACE THE
SHEER DENSITY OF PEOPLE THE WAY
AN OFFICE US.
SO WE'D HAVE TO BUILD A LOT
MORE HOUSING THAN WHAT IS
CURRENTLY PERMITTED AND WHAT IS
CURRENTLY AVAILABLE IN ORDER TO
ACHIEVE THE SHEER NUMBER THAT
THEY LOST BECAUSE OF COFAN AND
SO THAT'S WHAT I WAS ASKING
LIKE IN THE SCOPE THE ISSUE
REALLY IS WE NEED MORE HOUSING.
WE NEED TO BE ABLE TO PERMIT
MORE HOUSING DOWNTOWN AND I
WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT THAT IS
OUR GOAL AND I FEEL LIKE THESE
OTHER THINGS ARE GOING TO
RESTRICT US FROM ACHIEVING THAT
GOAL UNLESS THAT'S NOT ACTUALLY
LOCAL.
TO YOUR POINT OF WHAT THESE
REVISED LOOK LIKE AND THEN I'M
TRYING TO UNDERSTAND THAT THE
SUSTAINABILITY HEATING AND
COOLING BECAUSE THEN THAT IS
INSIDE PLANNING SO WE WOULD SAY
HERE IS A HEATING AND COOLING
OVERLAY DISTRICT THAT IS HERE
BUT I'M TRYING TO GET RID
OF ALL OF THE THE MENU ITEMS
BECAUSE EVERYONE CONTINUES TO
SAY THAT TO ME MENU OPTIONS
MAKE IT DIFFICULT TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT TO DO AND I THINK YOU
HEARD FROM THIS DELIO AT A
MEETING WHERE SHE WAS LIKE A
PERSONAL FUZED AND THEY'RE JUST
LIKE CAN YOU EXPLAIN THIS?
CAN YOU EXPLAIN THIS?
CAN YOU EXPLAIN?
AND WE'RE NOW GETTING TO A
POINT WHERE WE'RE TRYING TO
PERMIT A THING WE WANT TO DO
UNLESS I AM I MEAN I COULD BE
OVER HERE ON AN ISLAND ALL BY
MYSELF BUT THIS IS WHAT I'M
WHAT I'M SENSING.
I THINK IF I MAY, WHICH IS
PROBABLY ON THE NEXT SLIDE LIKE
THE IDEA OF WE'RE IN THE IN THE
STAFF REPORT THE REPORT THAT
YOU WRITE LIKE THERE WAS VOTING
RESULTS FROM LAST TIME THE
SMALL MENU OR NO INCENTIVE IT
JUST CHRIS DANCY I THINK I KNOW
WHICH CAMP OF I THINK THAT
THERE'S ALSO SOME PEOPLE THAT
ARE SAYING SMALL MENU.
SO I THINK RIGHT NOW THIS IS A
SMALLER MENU THAN WHAT IT WAS
BEFORE ONE OF THEM I THINK
BECAUSE THAT THAT NO INCENTIVE
INCREASED DENSITY THIS DOESN'T
GET AT THE JUST MORE HOUSING
UNITS.
AND SO I THINK THAT THAT ALONE
PROBABLY MAKES SENSE AS AS ITS
OWN GOAL BECAUSE I THINK THAT
THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
IS A GOAL.
AND THEN WHAT I HEARD FROM
BEFORE YOU GUYS CAN TELL ME
FROM MAKING THIS UP IS THAT THE
INCREASE SO THAT MAKE THAT THE
FIRST ONE MAYBE THIS IS
DAINTILY I THAT'S STILL ON THE
MENU BECAUSE EVEN WITH
GEOTHERMAL THERE'S A MORE
EFFICIENT BUILDINGS WITH LESS
OF IT.
OK, SO AND THEN THE THIRD ONE
THE INCREASED EQUITY IN THE
DOWNTOWN WHAT I HEARD WAS
AFFORDABILITY AND MIX OF UNITS
GET TOWARDS THAT THEN THAT CAN
BE IN THAT'S ACTUALLY ONE
OF THE QUESTIONS THAT I STARTED
WITH IS WHAT WE SEE IN
INCREASING EQUITY DOWN LIKE
OVERLAP MAYBE NOT COMPLETELY.
I SEE SOME OVERLAP BETWEEN THAT
AND AFFORDABILITY.
I'M JUST TRYING TO BE WIDER
DISTINCT.
SO NOW WE GO TOWARDS THAT JUST
MORE UNITS SUSTAINABILITY AND
ACCESSIBILITY, AFFORDABILITY
AND INABILITY TO ACTUALLY USE
THAT IN THE PREVIOUS ONE.
IF THAT'S WHAT WE MEAN BY
EQUITY THEN I THOSE ARE THE
THREE THINGS THAT I THOUGHT WE
WERE POTENTIALLY GOING FOR HERE
.
SO LET ME THROW SOMETHING OUT.
YEAH.
BASED ON WHAT YOU SAID IS THE
FIRST GOAL CHANGES TO INCREASE
HOUSING DOWNTOWN VERY SIMPLE.
SECOND GOAL REMAINS THE SAME
AND THIRD IS INCREASE EQUITY IN
DOWNTOWN THROUGH ACCESSABILITY
ATTAIN ABILITY AND DIVERSITY
OF UNITS AND DIVERSITY
OF HOUSING TYPES
.
DOES ACCESSIBILITY MEAN
AFFORDABILITY OR SOMETHING ELSE
?
ACCESSIBILITY USUALLY MEANS
THAT THERE'S BARRIER FREE
ASSUMING THE UNIVERSAL DESIGN
DO WE NEED AFFORDABILITY AND
ATTAINABLE ADAPTABILITY IN
THERE TO THE ABILITY AND
AFFORDABILITY AND ABILITY
USUALLY INCLUDES AFFORDABILITY
.
IT COULD BE EITHER OR WE COULD
TAKE OUT ACCESSIBILITY AND HAVE
AFFORDABILITY AVAILABILITY AND
NOW I THINK WE SHOULD LIVE IN
ACCESSIBILITY.
YEAH, I THINK AFFORDABILITY CAN
BE SUBSUMED IN THE INABILITY I
THINK I'M GOING TO JUST BRING
UP WHAT COMMISSIONER SAID THE
LAST TIME WE HAD THIS
CONVERSATION IS YOU ACTUALLY
MENTIONED SORT OF INTENTIONAL
EXCLUSION OF INDIVIDUALS HAVING
ACCESS TO THE DOWNTOWN AND SO
YOU WERE THINKING
OF INITIATIVES LIKE IN GRAND
RAPIDS WHERE THEY HAVE A BLACK
BUSINESS DISTRICT OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT AS WE WERE MAKING
THESE CHANGES.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU WANTED TO
BRING THAT FORWARD INTO THIS
PART BUT THAT WAS A PART
OF WHAT I HEARD YOU SAY ABOUT
EQUITY.
I DON'T KNOW HOW THAT GETS US
TO HOUSING AND I'M JUST REALLY
TRYING TO MAKE SURE THAT I KNOW
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT AND
WHAT WE CAN DO AT THIS TABLE.
AND THIS SEEMS TO BE ALL ABOUT
PERMITTING THINGS AND SO WE
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE CAN
COMMIT AS MUCH OF WHAT WE WANT
AND I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR
ABOUT WHAT IT IS WE WANT THAT.
I MEAN EQUITY MEANS SO MANY
DIFFERENT THINGS LIKE WHAT ARE
WE ACTUALLY TRYING TO ACHIEVE
WITH THIS IS MY BIG QUESTION.
I KNOW BUT I THINK THE EFFORT
OF NOT TRYING TO BE CONFUSING
AND SO I THINK IF WE HAVE
DISQUALIFIERS AFTER INCREASED
EQUITY IN THE DOWNTOWN THROUGH
ACCESSIBILITY ATTAIN ABILITY
AND DIVERSITY OF HOUSING TYPES,
THAT SPEAKS TO WHAT THE EQUITY
MEANS IN THAT WE'LL MAYBE YOU
TALKING RACIAL EQUITY OR SOCIAL
EQUITY LIKE LIKE SO ALL OF IT
SAYS THE WAY YOU TURN YOUR
MICROPHONE PLEASE THE PHRASE I
MEANS OF HELP SPECIFY THE
EQUITY SO ABOUT MAYBE I DON'T
KNOW I MEAN I DON'T YEAH BUT
YOU KNOW THE LIMITATIONS OF THE
TOOL SO IT'S PART OF ZONING AND
SO REALLY YOU CAN OPEN THINGS
UP AND ZONING BUT IN ORDER TO
REPAIR OR HARM WHERE CITIES
HAVE BEEN MOST SUCCESSFUL IS
THERE IN ADDITION TO OPENING
THINGS UP THROUGH THEIR ZONING
TO MAKE SURE THERE'S NOT
BARRIERS THERE'S PROGRAMING
THAT REPAIRS THE FARM OR EVEN
THE PLAYING FIELD AND WHAT THAT
WOULDN'T BE A ZONING ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT BECAUSE IT'S IT'S NOT
IT'S NOT EQUIPPED FOR THAT.
BUT YOU COULD DO IF YOU FELT
THAT THAT WAS IMPORTANT IS AS
YOU DEVELOPED AMENDMENTS YOU
CAN MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS TO
CITY COUNCIL TO SAY WE FEEL
THAT IT WOULD BE IMPORTANT OR
TO THE D-DAY TO HAVE PROGRAMS
THAT GO ALONG WITH THIS AND
SAYS MORE ABOUT IT.
WE COULD SAY INCREASE EQUITY
THROUGH THOSE THINGS YOU JUST
SAID WE COULD GET THE EXACT
SAME TYPE PEOPLE THAT WE HAVE
LIVING DOWNTOWN LIKE LIVING IN
THE I'M JUST LIKE I'M STUCK ON
THE WORD EQUITY WITHOUT LIKE
QUALIFYING IT.
COULDN'T WE ALSO HAVE LIKE I'VE
HEARD THERE ARE THINGS THAT
HAVE COME TO THE TABLE WHERE
DEVELOPERS SAID BUILDING THIS
BUT I'M ALSO DOING A STUDENT
PROJECT TEACH TRADING FOR THESE
THIS DEVELOPMENT FOR A PASSIVE
HOUSE.
I THINK MAYBE THE DIVISION
HOUSES RIGHT.
AND EVERYBODY WAS LIKE OH
THAT'S A REALLY GREAT THING BUT
I DON'T KNOW HOW THAT COMES
INTO PLAY WITH A UDC AMENDMENT.
I CAN SEE THAT IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
RIGHT, RIGHT.
OH, THIS DEVELOPMENT IS GOING
TO SPONSOR THIS PROGRAM WHICH
IS A WAY THAT WE GET TO EQUITY
BECAUSE FOLKS WHO HAVE BEEN
INTENTIONALLY EXCLUDED FROM
THIS TRADE ARE GOING TO LEARN
THIS SKILL AS THEY DEVELOP THIS
HOUSE AND THAT'S SORT OF A
LAUDABLE GOAL THAT WE HAVE.
BUT I JUST DON'T I'M STRUGGLING
TO SEE HOW WE DO IT IN THE UDC
.
SO MAYBE ONE SUGGESTION WOULD
BE TO INCREASE ACCESSIBILITY,
AFFORDABILITY AND DIVERSITY
WHATEVER AND MAKE THE EQUITY
OUT OF IT WITH AN
ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
THOSE ARE THE TOOLS WE HAVE AND
IT'S MAYBE MORE LIKE GUARANTEE
THAT WE'RE ACTUALLY GOING TO
LIKE YEAH, I'M GOING WITH THAT
WORD.
I THINK IT'S AN IMPORTANT
ASPECT OF IT.
WE HAVE TO DEFINE WHAT WE MEAN.
RIGHT, RIGHT.
SO IN NINETEEN SEVENTY THE CITY
WAS DESIGNING ONE ACRE LOTS TO
EXCLUDE BLACK PEOPLE FROM
BUYING SO A EQUITY RESPONSE TO
THAT IS LIKE RIGHT HERE'S HOW
WE'RE GOING TO FIX THAT BUT
WE'D HAVE TO DEFINE THAT AND I
DON'T THINK THAT'S WHAT YOU
WERE PROPOSING.
I DON'T WANT TO SPEAK FOR THEM.
NO, THAT FEELS LIKE SO MAYBE
THAT GOES BACK TO STAFF
SOMEWHERE TO SAY HOW DO WE
WRITE THE HISTORICAL WRONGS IN
OUR PLANNING AS WE GO FORWARD
SO THAT WE KEEP THAT IN AN EYE
ON THAT RIGHT.
LIKE BANK OF AMERICA JUST
ANNOUNCED THAT THEY'RE HELPING
PEOPLE WITH CLOSING COSTS AND
IN ORDER BECAUSE THE COST
OF HOUSING IS TOO HIGH.
I WAS JUST LIKE OH THAT SEEMS
VERY PRACTICAL WHETHER YOU LIKE
BANK OF AMERICA OR NOT, THAT'S
A WAY TO SORT OF LEVEL IT AND
IT'S ONLY AVAILABLE TO PEOPLE
UP TO NINETY FOUR THOUSAND
DOLLARS OF HOUSEHOLD INCOME.
SO IT'S EXCLUSIONARY IN ONE
SENSE BUT IT'S HELPING OTHERS
IN ANOTHER SENSE.
BUT I DON'T HEAR THAT THAT'S
WHAT YOU ARE PROPOSING.
NO, THAT'S NOT WHAT I'M
PROPOSING AND AS A PLANNING
CONSULTANT I WOULD SAY THAT THE
MOST APPROPRIATE PLACE FOR THAT
IS IN YOUR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
AND TO HAVE DEEP COMMUNITY
DISCUSSIONS AND CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT WHAT EQUITY MEANS AND HOW
THE CITY WANTS TO GO FORWARD SO
ANYONE ONE OPPORTUNITY TO
STRIKE EQUITY THINK ANOTHER
OPTION WOULD IF IT WAS
IMPORTANT TO HAVE A KIND
OF VALUE DECLARED IN.
THE THIRD GOAL WOULD BE TO SAY
ANYBODY WHO WANTS TO LIVE
DOWNTOWN CAN LIVE DOWNTOWN OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT WHICH
INCLUDES ACCESSIBILITY,
AVAILABILITY AND DIFFERENT
TYPES OF UNITS WHICH WHAT THAT
IT'S JUST NOT REALLY TRUE IN
OUR CURRENT LANDSCAPE WITH ONE
OF YOUR GOALS, HOW WILL BE HOW
COULD WE MEASURE SO WHAT ARE
THE MEASURABLE WAYS THAT WE
WOULD KNOW THAT WE CAN ALWAYS
AND JUST INCREASE THE TIME TO
BE THE LANGUAGE ARE SO THAT
THAT GOAL GOES TO INCREASE
ACCESSIBILITY ATTAINABLE AND
DIVERSITY OF HOUSING TYPES
LITERALLY MEAN ACCESSIBILITY IN
TERMS OF ADA BECAUSE THAT IS
ALREADY IN THE BUILDING.
RIGHT.
WE DON'T NEED TO SAY THAT
BECAUSE IT'S ALREADY MANDATED
IT'S BEEN MANDATED FOR DECADES.
ALL RIGHT.
ABOUT EVERYTHING HAS TO BE
THERE.
YOU CANNOT BUILD IT RIGHT?
I MEAN IT IT HASN'T BEEN AT THE
TABLE.
WE'VE ASKED FOR ADDITIONAL
THINGS THAT ONE DEVELOPMENT ON
MILLER WE RESET THE WHOLE THING
AND HAD ENGINEERING REDO IT SO
THAT YOU COULD ACCESS IT FROM
THE STREET EVEN THOUGH IT WAS
ON THAT PITCH TILL AND WHAT HIS
HE WAS LOOKING FOR UNIVERSAL
DESIGN WITHIN UNITS THAT'S NOT
REQUIRED NECESSARILY BY ADA BUT
INTERIOR IS WHERE THE YOU KNOW,
YOU DON'T HAVE DOORJAMBS OR
THINGS LIKE THAT IN THE
HALLWAYS ARE BEYOND WHAT WE
REQUIRE BY BUILDING CODE .
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE GETTING AT.
OK, SO JUST SO WE REALIZE THAT
MEANS YOUR UNITS GET BIGGER.
IT MEANS YOU'RE I MEAN IT'S SO
JUST AGAIN JUST SO THAT WE HAVE
OUR EYES OPEN ABOUT WHAT THAT
MEANS.
IT'S LIKE ALL EVERYBODY WE ALL
WANT SO MANY DIFFERENT WORTHY
GOALS.
THIS IS THIS IS THE HARD PART.
SO DO WE HAVE EVERYTHING BE
ACCESSIBLE AND THEN ALL
OF THOSE DOORJAMBS ARE WIDE AND
ALL OF THE BATHROOMS ARE BIGGER
SO THAT NOW THE WHEELCHAIR CAN
TURN AROUND OR DO WE NEED TO
INCREASE NOT OK.
SO DOES THAT MEAN THAT WE ARE
SAYING THAT IT HAS TO BE MORE
THAN WHATEVER LIKE THE
PERCENTAGE OF ACCESSIBLE UNITS
ARE MORE THAN I MEAN I JUST
THINK WE NEED TO BE AWARE
OF WHAT I THINK WE CAN ASK
ATTACK.
I THINK WE COULD COUNT AND THEN
WITH THE GOAL OF INCREASING IT
WE COULD SEE WHATEVER WE DECIDE
WHETHER THE COUNT INCREASES
AFTER WE SET SORT OF THESE
GOALS.
I HEAR YOU I HEAR YOU SAYING
LIKE MAKE SURE YOU UNDERSTAND
WHAT YOU'RE WHAT YOU'RE
ACTUALLY SAYING AND I DON'T
THINK WE'RE SAYING EVERY UNIT
HAS TO BE A BASELINE STANDARD
OUTSIDE OF THE BUILDING CODE .
I SEE THIS WE WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT WHAT COMMISSIONAIRE SAID
ANYONE WHO WANTS TO LIVE
DOWNTOWN CAN AND THAT THEY'RE
NOT JUST PERMANENTLY EXCLUDED
BECAUSE OF WHAT'S BEING BUILT
AND SO FORTH.
SO I I'M I'M COMFORTABLE WITH
IT.
BUT COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE AND
WE CAN ALWAYS RETURN TO THESE
LATER TONIGHT OR LATER IN THE
PROCESS THE COMPETITION IS
ACTUALLY GOING TO CONTINUE.
WE NEED TO SEPARATE THEM OUT
BECAUSE IF THERE'S ACTUALLY ALL
THIS DISCUSSION BECAUSE THOSE
THREE THINGS ARE DIFFERENT AND
DIFFERENT PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
FEEL DIFFERENTLY ABOUT THOSE
THREE THINGS THAT WE NOW PUT
TOGETHER AND ONE GOAL AND SO I
JUST WANT TO I WANT TO NAME
THAT AND I DON'T KNOW THAT WE
HAVE TO SOLVE IT.
I MEAN YOU TELL US THAT WE HAVE
TO SOLVE THIS TONIGHT.
NO, YOU GOT TO SOLVE THIS
TONIGHT THIS AND THIS IS
ACTUALLY A REALLY IMPORTANT
THING BECAUSE AGAIN WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT HERE IS NOT ANY
REQUIREMENTS.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT INCENTIVES
SO ESPECIALLY GOING TO THE NEXT
THING I'M TRYING TO MOVE ALONG
SMALL MONEY VERSUS MOMENTUM.
THIS IS THAT'S A FUNDAMENTAL
THING IF WE I'M GUESSING THAT
THE UNIVERSALLY ACCESSIBLE
THING WOULD BE DONE IN A
DIFFERENT WAY.
YOU KNOW, LIKE HOW DO YOU DO
THAT THEN A MIX OF UNIT LABOR
AFFORDABILITY OR A DENHA
ABILITY IF YOU LIKE.
RIGHT.
LIKE SO I JUST WANT TO I WANT
TO THAT WE MIGHT NEED THAT
RIGHT ABOUT NOW.
IT'S GETTING TO BE A LONG LIST
AND THAT'S PROBLEMATIC.
BUT WE CAN TAKE A LONGER LIST
TO THE STAKEHOLDERS.
I GET FEEDBACK AND THERE MIGHT
BE THINGS WHERE WE WOULD HEAR
FROM DEVELOPERS TO SAY THAT'S
GOING TO BE REALLY CONFUSING OR
DIFFICULT OR GOING TO ANOTHER
BOARD OR COMMISSION WITHIN THE
CITY AND HERE YOU KNOW THAT'S
YES, THAT'S ABSOLUTELY ONE
OF OUR PRIORITIES OR NO.
CAN YOU THINK ABOUT THIS SO WHY
DON'T WE WORK RIGHT NOW MOVE
OVER TO THE POLICY, PURCHASE
FEEDBACK, TALK ABOUT
STAKEHOLDERS IN THE CIRCLE BACK
TO ARTICLES AT THE END THAT
WORK OK, SO THANK YOU NEXT
TIME.
SO WHEN WE HAD A DISCUSSION
LAST MONTH AT THE VERY END EACH
OF YOU TO TELL ME TO TELL US
SMALL MENU, LARGE MENU, NO
INCENTIVE AND THERE IS NOT A
LOT OF SUPPORT FOR THE LARGE
MENU WHICH IS THE STATUS QUO.
THERE WAS A FORUM BETWEEN THE
TWO BETWEEN THE COMMISSIONERS.
THERE IS MORE SOME MORE
SUPPORT.
IT'S A SMALL MENU THEN NO
INCENTIVE AT ALL AND SO IN OUR
MEMORY WE KIND OF FLESHED OUT
MAYBE WHAT THOSE WOULD WORK
LOOK AT LOOK LIKE AND ALSO
SUGGESTED A HYBRID MODEL SO
THAT IF YOU WERE GOING TO LOOK
AT NOT USING THE PREMIUMS THAT
ARE AN OPTION THEN IS TO JUST
INCREASE THAT BASE IF THEY ARE
TO THE CURRENT FSA ARE PREMIUM
MAXIMUM AND SO THAT'S NINE
HUNDRED IF THEY ARE
ONE AND
FOUR HUNDRED FORTY TWO AND
THESE ARE JUST EXAMPLES TO HAVE
YOU THINK ABOUT IT TO GIVE YOU
SOMETHING TO WORK OFF OF OR YOU
COULD KEEP DENSITY AS IT IS AND
OFFER A SMALL MENU FOR THOSE
PREMIUMS AGAIN WITHIN THE SAME
RANGES.
ANOTHER OPTION IS ALSO TO DO
BOTH IS TO INCREASE THE SUPPLY
A LITTLE BIT LET'S SAY SIX
HUNDRED ONE AND THREE HUNDRED
AND EIGHTY TWO AND SO KEEP THAT
SMALL MENU FOR THE THINGS THAT
YOU KNOW THAT YOU CAN'T REQUIRE
AND THAT YOU WANT.
SO OUR NEXT STEP IS TO GO TO
STAKEHOLDERS AND TALK TO THEM
ABOUT THIS MORE I WANT TO KNOW
FROM YOU IS OF THESE POLICY
APPROACHES AND DIFFERENT
OPTIONS WHAT DO YOU WANT US TO
TALK TO THEM ABOUT?
AND I THINK WE CAN TAKE ALL
YOUR IDEAS AND MELD THEM
TOGETHER.
I DON'T THINK WE NEED TO THE
WHOLE GROUP AGREE TO ONE LIST
IF THAT'S OK WITH YOU.
OK, SO JUST POP ON OR GO WORK
FROM ONE WAY TO ANOTHER.
WE'LL START WITH YOU AND THIS
WILL BE COMMISSIONER.
SO I REALLY APPRECIATE YOU
HEARING ME AND I SAW MY
COMMENTS REFLECTED IN YOUR
MENU.
I WAS LIKE OH THAT'S EXACTLY
WHAT I WANTED WHICH IS THE
MAXIMUM FOR AT NINE HUNDRED HAD
THE MAXIMUM FOR AT FOUR HUNDRED
WITHOUT THE INCENTIVES AND I
THINK FOR ME THE THING THAT I
WAS WRESTLING THROUGH WAS THE
GOAL IS TO GET MORE HOUSING IN
THE DOWNTOWN THEN I WANT TO DO
THE THING THAT DOES THAT THE
BEST AND IF I WAS HEARING THE
FEEDBACK CORRECTLY THE MENU
APPROACH IS CONFUSING FOR
DEVELOPERS SO I VOTE FOR NO
INCENTIVE.
I LIKE THE VA BUT IF WE HAD TO
GET TO A CONSENSUS THE HYBRID
ALSO WORKS BECAUSE YOU INCREASE
THE VA IN THOSE TWO DISTRICTS
AND I'VE ALSO WONDERED WHY WE
JUST DON'T EXTEND THAT ONE
ACROSS ALL OF THESE TWO BUT I
DON'T WANT TO CAUSE ANY MORE
LINES AT THE TABLE TONIGHT SO I
COMMISSIONER CLARK SO I DON'T
ACTUALLY HAVE A WHOLE LOT
OF COMMENT ON THIS A LITTLE
DEEPER.
I KNOW INSTEAD OF JUST MAKING
IS CLEAR AND STRAIGHTFORWARD AS
POSSIBLE SO YEAH, NO INCENTIVE
BUT I MIGHT HAVE MORE TO SAY
LATER.
AND ANY PARTICULAR QUESTION FOR
BOTH COMMISSIONER AND
COMMISSIONER CLARK THAT YOU
WOULD WANT TO ASK TO ANYONE IN
THE STAKEHOLDERS I MEAN HEARD
AND I ASKED THE D.A. THIS I
HEARD A DEVELOPER SAY THEY
DON'T WANT TO BUILD AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FOR THE CITY.
SO IS THAT IS THAT TRUE THAT
THEY THEY WANT THAT DONE
THROUGH A TIFF OR THROUGH THE
MILLICH OR AS A CITY PROCESS?
THEY DON'T WANT TO BE
RESPONSIBLE FOR DOING THAT.
AND I THINK MORE CLARIFYING
THING TO SAY THEY DON'T WANT TO
MANAGE IT IS A BIG PIECE OF IT
WAS WHAT I HEARD WAS STOP
ASKING DEVELOPERS TO BUILD MORE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
SO CAN I JUST KIND OF BUILD ON
THAT QUESTION?
I GUESS MY QUESTION WOULD BE TO
STAKEHOLDERS LIKE HOW MUCH DOES
HAVING THEM SUBSIDIZE
DEVELOPMENT RAISE THE COST
OF OTHER UNITS AND MAYBE THE
BROADER QUESTION THAT LIKE A
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT BUT FOR
DEVELOPERS SPECIFICALLY I WANT
TO KNOW WHAT THE PRICE MARGIN
IS GOING TO BE IF THEY'RE
HAVING TO ABSORB THOSE COSTS.
I WORRY ABOUT CREATING A TWO
DIFFERENT WITHOUT SUBSIDIES
FROM A LARGER POOL OF FUNDING
STATE, FEDERAL, EVEN COUNTY.
I JUST WORRY ABOUT SUBSIDIZING
THAT AND I'D WANT TO KNOW WHAT
POSSIBLY AND IF PEOPLE WOULDN'T
MIND IF THE MARKET WOULD BE
ABLE TO ABSORB THAT HIGHER
PRICE.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S WHAT
WE'RE TALKING.
THANK YOU.
OK, I'M NOT ENTIRELY
COMFORTABLE WITH UH MERELY
INCREASING BASE FOR FAIR AND NO
PREMIUMS BUT THE HYBRID MODEL I
DON'T THINK INCREASES THE BASE
AND FAIR ENOUGH.
I THINK THAT IT KEEPS IT WHERE
WE ARE NOW WHICH IS THAT WE
WILL NOT SEE DEVELOPMENT
BECAUSE THE BASE IS TOO LOW TO
MAKE FINANCIAL SENSE IN A CITY
WHERE MOST DEVELOPMENT IS
REDEVELOPMENT AND SO THEY'VE
ALREADY GOT A THREE OR FOUR
STORY BUILDING THAT'S GIVING
THEM SOMETHING SO THEY KNOCK IT
DOWN IF THEY HAVE TO PUT A
PREMIUM TO GET OVER SIX STOREYS
SO IT WON'T AS A BASE FOR OUR
FINANCIAL YEAR I'M STARTING TO
GET REALLY CLOSE TO THE
BEGINNING.
BUT I MEAN IT I WOULD THINK I
WOULD LIKE TO SEE IT INCREASED
TO SEVEN HUNDRED OR MAYBE EVEN
SEVEN FIFTY.
CAN YOU DO THAT?
SEVEN FIFTY YOU CAN DO SEVEN
TWELVE FABULOUS.
THIS WOULD BE A GREAT UP TO
YOUR POINT THIS IS THE QUESTION
WHERE WOULD YOU WHERE WOULD YOU
NEED US TO PUT THE BASE SO THAT
YOU WEREN'T JUST SO THAT YOU
CAN STILL BE ENTICED BY
PREMIUMS BUT NOT JUST STALLED?
RIGHT.
SO THAT WOULD BE A GOOD
QUESTION.
THAT'S WHAT I'D LIKE TO HEAR.
I WANT TO HEAR HOW THEY'D CRAFT
THE HYBRID MODEL AND I WOULD
ASK THEM IF THEY HAVE A STRONG
PREFERENCE FOR THE ABILITY TO
GIVE ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
PAYMENT TO YOU IN PLACE
OF BUILDING AFFORDABLE UNITS ON
SITE.
OK, GOT SO YEAH.
IN OTHER WORDS I REALLY LIKE
OFFERING THEM THE TWEAK THE
HYBRID MODEL AND THEN ASKING
THEM HOW THEY WOULD TWEAK IT.
I SIMILARILY LIKE THE HYBRID
MODEL I I ACTUALLY DON'T KNOW
THAT THAT WOULD INCREASE THE
THEY ARE THAT MUCH BECAUSE LIKE
I LIKE THE QUESTION LIKE WHERE
WOULD YOU WHAT WOULD IT TAKE
YOU TO JUST BUILD ANYTHING AND
THEN WHAT DOES IT ACTUALLY GET
US EITHER MORE AFFORDABILITY.
AND SO THE QUESTION THAT
COMMISSIONER ASKED ABOUT
PAYMENT ENTIRELY FOR AGAIN WHAT
WOULD THAT WHAT WOULD THE BONUS
NEED TO BE?
WHAT WOULD THE INCENTIVE TO BE
TO GET US A MUCH MORE EFFICIENT
BUILDING?
THAT'S THE THING THEY GIVE YOU
NUMBERS.
I THINK THAT'LL BE REALLY
USEFUL.
BUT EVERYONE I DON'T KNOW THAT
ALL OF YOUR AUDIENCE IS THAT
YOU'RE GOING TO AN ANSWER FROM
EVERYONE WHAT I WOULD REALLY
THINK WOULD BE REALLY HELPFUL
IS PROS CONS LIKE EXPECTED AND
UNEXPECTED BUT WELL MAYBE THESE
ARE NOT UNEXPECTED CONSEQUENCES
LIKE THESE ARE THE EXPECTED.
I WANT THAT ADDED THIS I WANT
TO KNOW WHAT THEY THINK WOULD
HAPPEN LIKE THE PROS AND CONS,
EACH OF THEM.
I THINK THIS IS PRETTY SOLID
BUT THAT'S WHAT IF YOU COULD
EXACTLY ASK THEM LIKE WHAT ARE
WE MISSING WITH RESPECT TO OUR
ROLES, WITH RESPECT TO OTHER
GOALS PEOPLE KNOW OUR CITY HAS
THAT WE'RE NOT THINKING OF ?
I THINK THAT WOULD BE USEFUL.
THANK YOU FOR SO DO DO ALL
THREE BECAUSE I US YEAH.
THANK YOU MALCOLM.
YOU JUST SAID EXACTLY WHAT I
WAS GOING TO SAY SO THERE YOU
GO.
YEAH SO I'M I LIKE THE HYBRID
THING TOO AND I WANT TO KNOW
WHERE WE LAND.
THE OTHER THING AND THIS MAY
HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH IT I'M
JUST CURIOUS AND WHO KNOWS IF
THIS GETS ANSWERED BUT WITH
ATTAINABLE HOW BIG IS THAT UNIT
?
I JUST BE CURIOUS LIKE IS THAT
A FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT UNIT
IS A FOUR SQUARE FOOT UNIT LIKE
FOR THE KIND OF LIKE WHAT YOU
KNOW OUR AVERAGE MEDIAN INCOME
WHAT IS THE SIZE OF THAT I JUST
WANT TO LIKE IS OUR WAY THAT
FAR IS ONE THING CAN WE SAY
UNITS OR UNIT SIZE OR SOME
OTHER WAY OF THINKING ABOUT IT
SO THAT WE CAN GET PEOPLE TO
MAKE SMALLER UNITS OR THINGS
THAT AREN'T JUST THE FIVE SIX
BEDROOM BUSINESS OR THEY ARE
TWO THOUSAND CORPORATE LUXURY
BUSINESS SO THAT'S ASKING TOO
MANY OF OUR NUMBERS FOR YOU.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S SOMETHING
YOU CAN REALLY IF THAT'S LIKE
REAL HOUSE OR NOT, BUT THAT
WOULD BE AN ADDITIONAL QUESTION
THAT I WOULD HAVE BECAUSE
THAT'S WHAT I THAT'S PART
OF WHAT I REALLY WANT IS TO
FIGURE OUT HOW TO GET REGULAR
PEOPLE TO BE ABLE LIVE DOWNTOWN
PEOPLE THAT ARE LIKE IN THIS
COMMUNITY THAT SO THAT IT'S
LIKE ANYBODY CAN LIVE DOWNTOWN.
YEAH, THAT'S DIVERSITY.
HOUSING STARTS DOING THE IF WE
HAVE SOME SORT OF BASELINE FOR
NOW ANYWAY THEN WE KNOW IF WE
WANT TO BE ABLE TO INCENTIVIZE
EVEN SMALLER SO THAT PEOPLE WHO
AREN'T JUST IN THE AVERAGE CAN
ALSO HAVE A CHANCE TO I THINK
LIKE RIGHT NOW WHAT I SEE FROM
MY OTHER LIFE OUTSIDE
OF PLANNING COMMISSION IS THAT
THE MATH SEEMS TO WORK BETTER
FOR THE LUXURY OF THING AND SO
I WANT TO KNOW HOW WE CAN MAKE
IT BETTER FOR PEOPLE TO NOT DO
THE LUXURY KIND OF THING AND
WHATEVER TOOLS WE HAVE TO BE
ABLE TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN, IT
THANKS.
I GUESS I WOULD ADD I KNOW
WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT WHO THE
STAKEHOLDERS ARE YET BUT I FEEL
LIKE MOST OF THESE QUESTIONS
ARE DIRECTED AT DEVELOPERS
WHICH I THINK IS ONLY ONE
OF THE EIGHT GROUPS.
SO I WOULD MAYBE JUST ENCOURAGE
TO THINK ABOUT QUESTIONS WE
MIGHT HAVE FOR THE OTHER
POTENTIAL STAKEHOLDERS
WHICH
WOULD BE LIKE DENHA OR HOUSING
AND HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY
BOARD, HOUSING COMMISSION ETC.
UM, I AM INTERESTED IN BOTH THE
NO INCENTIVE AND THE HYBRID
MODEL.
I THINK I AM NOT QUITE SURE HOW
THE NO INCENTIVE MODEL ACHIEVES
THE GOALS THAT WE JUST WERE
HASHING OUT.
SO I GUESS THAT'S MY CONCERN
AND THEN I'M WONDERING WHY OR
CAN WE TALK ABOUT GOING HIGHER
THAN NINE HUNDRED AND FOUR
HUNDRED?
I DON'T SEE THAT ON THE TABLE.
IS THERE A VERSION OF THE
HYBRID WHERE WE INCREASE EIGHT
AND FOUR AND THEN OFFER
PREMIUMS?
YEAH TWELVE HUNDRED OR WHATEVER
THE YEAH OK IT'S SEEMED LIKE IT
WAS LIKE A NINE TO THE CEILING
AND WE HAVE TO KIND OF MOVE BY
IN THAT WHETHER IT'S MY BASE
NINE HUNDRED YOUR BASE AND THAT
WAS FACILITATOR CHECK NOT TO
ROCK THE BOAT OUT OF THE GATE
FOR THE DISCUSSION ON THE TABLE
WE COULD JUST TALK ABOUT THE
OTHER THINGS OK I DON'T THINK I
HAVE ANYTHING ELSE THAT I ADD
THEM OK I DID MY ABOUT ABOUT
HOW THE NO INCENTIVE OPTION
WOULD MEET THE OTHER TWO GOALS
BESIDES INCREASING HOUSING.
I THINK FOR ME I LIKE THE
HYBRID OPTION BUT WOULD I MEAN
I'M NOT GOING TO SAY ANYTHING
NEW I'D WANT TO HEAR FROM
STAKEHOLDERS LIKE WHAT ARE THE
PREMIUMS THAT ACTUALLY CONVINCE
YOU TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF BEING
ABLE TO ADD MORE IF WHAT ARE
THE THINGS THAT YOU WOULD BE
WILLING TO DO?
AND I THINK UNDERSTANDING LIKE
A NUMBERS WILL REALLY HELP.
I THINK YOU HAD SAID THIS
BEFORE WE TALKED ABOUT IT.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE GOALS.
ARE YOU IF YOU'RE PLANNING ON
SHARING THE GOALS TO SORT
OF BOUNCE THEM OFF OF THE
STAKEHOLDERS, I I WOULD LOVE
FOR THEM TO TRY TO PRIORITIZE
THEM.
THEY WOULD JUST BE INTERESTING
TO SEE LIKE FORCED TO
PRIORITIZE THESE THINGS BECAUSE
WE CANNOT HAVE EVERYTHING.
HOW WOULD EACH OF THESE
DIFFERENT GROUPS HOW WOULD YOU
PRIORITIZE THEM?
I DON'T I DON'T KNOW.
NO ONE'S ASKING ME I'M ASKING
YOU RIGHT NOW I DON'T KNOW WHAT
THE THIRD GOAL IS.
I DON'T KNOW REALLY ENDED UP ON
SO I'M AFRAID THAT I CAN'T KIND
OF I DON'T KNOW.
I MEAN IT'S IT'S A QUESTION I
WANT DIFFICULT TO SAY BECAUSE I
DON'T KNOW WHAT I WOULD SAY.
I AT ALL I CAN'T HAVE IT ALL I
WAS I WAS THINKING OF A SIMILAR
QUESTION WHEN YOU STARTED THIS
AND I GUESS ONE OF THE
OBSERVATIONS I WILL JUST HAVE
IS THAT I GET I GET THE BALANCE
OF THE THINGS THAT WE DESIRE AS
A COMMUNITY AND THE THINGS THAT
WE CAN'T REQUIRES COMMUNITY.
BUT I THINK TO A PERSON AT THIS
TABLE WE WANT MORE HOUSING
DOWNTOWN AND I WOULD JUST
OBSERVE THAT IT'S INTERESTING
THAT WE WOULD IN WHAT
CIRCUMSTANCE IF THAT'S OUR
GOAL, WOULD WE REQUIRE AN
OFFSET FOR THAT?
SO THAT'S TAKING THE SMALL
VENUE OFF THE PLATE THAT TABLE
SO ONLY TALKING ABOUT THE TWO
OPTIONS I THINK IT IS MAYBE
BIFURCATING THE GOALS.
TO WHAT EXTENT IS HOUSING A
GOAL HERE?
MORE HOUSING IS A BIG GOAL
DIVERSITY OF HOUSING MAYBE
THAT'S SUBGOAL MAYBE
SUSTAINABILITY TO SAY SUBGOAL
SO IT'S HARD TO GO ASIDE IN
THIS CONVERSATION BUT I THINK
IT'S JUST AN OBSERVATION THAT
I'M HEARING THAT WHEN WHEN WE
COME BACK WITH THIS FEEDBACK
ABOUT WHAT'S VIABLE AND THE
LIKE, YOU KNOW, JUST ANOTHER
OBSERVATION THAT SOMETIMES
COMMUNITIES GET CAUGHT UP WHEN
THEY HAVE A LAND ASSET AND THEY
WANT TO OFFER THAT TO THE
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY THROUGH
AN RFP OR SOMETHING TO THAT
EFFECT.
AND A LOT OF TIMES COMMUNITIES
CAN START TRYING TO SOLVE EVERY
PROBLEM.
I THINK SOME OF THIS WITH THE
415 WEST WASHINGTON AND IT'S
THIS IS NOT THAT FAR FROM THAT
WHEN WE IF WE DON'T PROVIDE
OPTIONS AND WE REQUIRE LAYERS,
WE ARE DOING THAT SAME THING.
WE'RE GOING TO BE LAYERING
REQUIREMENTS THAT WE'RE
PROBABLY NOT GOING TO GET ANY
OF THE THINGS THAT WE DESIRE.
SO I I JUST I AM HEARING
HOUSING AND I'M HEARING THAT
ELEVATED IN A HIGHER OUTCOME
DESIRABILITY THAN EVEN
POTENTIALLY SUSTAINABILITY AND
DIVERSITY OF HOUSING.
I KNOW I'M NOT TRYING TO
BELITTLE THOSE GOALS BUT
INCREASING HOUSING SUPPLY
DOWNTOWN HELPS ALL OF THAT
PERIOD I WANT CAN I ASK ONE
MORE QUESTION THAT AS YOU ARE
TALKING BECAUSE I THINK I THINK
THAT'S TRUE BUT I ALSO THINK
IT'S LIKE ADDING THE RIGHT
TYPES OF HOUSING.
SO I WOULD BE CURIOUS TO SEE
FROM ALL THESE STAKEHOLDERS
PERSPECTIVES WHAT DO THEY SEE
AS MISSING CRITICAL.
SO WHAT'S MISSING IN HOUSING
DOWNTOWN?
YEAH, AND I THINK I KNOW BUT I
WOULD JUST LIKE TO SORT OF SEE
HOW ALL THE DIFFERENT GROUPS
MIGHT RESPOND TO THAT RIGHT
EMOTIONALLY I HAVE SOME
FEEDBACK ON ACTUALLY WHO SHOULD
WE TALK TO NEXT GOGIA AND I
THINK THE CONVERSATION IS GREAT
BECAUSE ALWAYS BRINGS ME BACK
TO PLANNINGS PLAYING THIS
TRIANGLE RIGHT.
WE HAVE TO BALANCE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT, SUSTAINABILITY AND
SOCIAL JUSTICE AND THOSE ARE
THE THREE THEMES WE ARE
CONSISTENTLY KIND OF REVOLVING
AROUND.
THE QUESTION IS, IS PREMIUMS
ONLY LIMITED TO FBAR OR CAN
THEY BE TEMPORAL?
AND YOU KNOW, IN THE PAST WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT LIKE EXPEDITING
REVIEWS OR SOMETHING ALONG
THOSE LINES.
I DON'T EVEN KNOW IF THAT'S
LEGAL WHERE YOU PRIORITIZE YOU
KNOW THAT EVERYTHING SHOULD BE
GIVEN KIND OF LIKE JUST YOU
KNOW, TIME REVIEW.
SO ARE THERE OTHER DIMENSIONS
THAT ARE VALUABLE THAT WHICH
COULD BE USED TO INDUCE CERTAIN
THIS IS NOT JUST DENSITY
BECAUSE I THINK WE ALL WANT
THAT'S KEY TO A CERTAIN EXTENT.
RIGHT.
AND THERE IS A DIMINISHING
RETURN AFTER YOU HIT A CERTAIN
HEIGHT.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, STICK BUILT
FIVE STORIES ONE HUNDRED TWENTY
ONE HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT THAT'S
KIND OF WHERE IT ENDS.
YOU GET TO A PODIUM WITH STICK
ON TOP ONE WAY MAYBE UP TO SIX
AND SO YOU HAVE TO AND THAT'S
PROBABLY LIKE ONE SIXTY ONE
SEVENTY FOUR AND THEN YOU GET
TO LIKE EACH STEAL YOU CAN GET
TO TEN STORIES.
SO THERE ARE THESE KINDS
OF LIKE SPECIFIC SEGMENTS
OF COSTS AND RETURNS THAT YOU
CAN HIT BUT THEN THERE'S ALSO
AREAS WHERE YOU HAVE
DIMINISHING MARGINAL RETURNS SO
YOU GET A HIGH POINT IN
CONSTRUCTION YOU WANT TO GO UP
SUPER HIGH BUT NOW YOU HAVE TO
HAVE A LOT MORE COSTS
ASSOCIATED WITH THAT.
SO I'M WONDERING IF IT'S NOT IF
WE'RE ONLY HYPER HYPERFOCUS ON
RAFAAT AND IF THERE'S DIFFERENT
AREAS OF PREMIUMS THAT AGAIN
LIKE HEY I DON'T KNOW FEES I
MEAN WE TALK ABOUT FEES WHEN IT
CAME TO YOU AND CREATE A CREDIT
UNION OR WE TALKED ABOUT SO I
DON'T KNOW SPEED COSTS THOSE
KINDS OF THINGS CAN BE
CONSIDERED IN THE PREMIUM
DISCUSSION.
I GET THAT AT NOT TO TRY TO
CREATE MORE COMPLEXITY BUT
TEMPUR AURALLY TIME IS MONEY IN
REAL ESTATE LIKE LITERALLY
LEASEHOLD INTEREST.
WHAT OCCURS ON THE PRODUCTIVITY
OF LAND IS MONEY.
SO CAN THAT CAN THAT BE A
DIMENSION THAT WE COULD TACKLE
AS A PREMIUM?
JUST DON'T OUT THERE?
I THINK THAT'S AN EXCELLENT
QUESTION TO ASK.
IF I WAS JUST GOING TO SAY I
AGREE I THINK THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT YOU CAN INCORPORATE INTO
THOSE PARTICULAR CONVERSATIONS
.
I BUT I WILL ALSO GIVE YOU MY
SPECULATION THAT ADJUSTMENT TO
OUR FEES TO PROCESS AND TIME
ARE NOT THE BIG COST FACTORS IN
A DEVELOPMENT AND I I DON'T
KNOW THAT DRASTIC CHANGES TO
THOSE ARE GOING TO OVERCOME THE
DELTA BETWEEN MIXED FUEL
BUILDING AND ELECTRIFIED
BUILDING.
BUT THAT'S FAIR.
THAT'S THANK YOU.
YOU KNOW A GOOD POINT BEFORE WE
MOVE ON.
YES.
I JUST I WANT TO RESPOND TO MR.
LEONARD.
YOUR STATEMENT WAS INCREASING
HOUSING SUPPLY DOWNTOWN HELPS
ALL THOSE GOALS AND
COMMISSIONER SCHMIDT'S RESPONSE
WAS I'M NOT SURE IF THE TYPES
OF HOUSING DOESN'T MATTER AND I
WANT TO UNDERSCORE THAT I
REALLY DO THINK THAT THAT'S A
QUESTION THAT WE'RE WRESTLING
WITH WHICH IS A MEANINGFUL ONE
BECAUSE I HEAR ALL THE TIME
THAT RESIDENTS ARE REALLY TIRED
OF THE STUDENT TOWERS GOING UP
DOWNTOWN AND I THINK THAT THE
MARKET WOULD BE INCLINED TO
GIVE ALL THOSE THEY WOULD GIVE
US A LOT OF THOSE WITH IT OR I
KNOW THAT I WOULDN'T THINK WE
HAD A HEALTHY DOWNTOWN IF
THAT'S WHAT IT WAS FULL OF .
IT'S NOT THAT I DO NOT HAVE I
HAVE I LOVE STUDENTS.
I TEACH THEM BUT THEY THEY DO
THINGS.
THEY GO AWAY IN THE SUMMER.
THEY HAVE EXAMS THEY DON'T YOU
KNOW THE THE CITY LOOKS
DIFFERENT WHEN IT'S TRYING TO
CATER TO JUST MARKET AND THAT
DOESN'T FEEL LIKE A CITY THAT
HAS A MIX OF KINDS OF PEOPLE I
I WOULD SAY THAT IS PART OF THE
HOUSING CHALLENGE THAT WE HAVE
HERE.
THERE THOSE
ARE CONSTRUCTED
BECAUSE THERE IS DEMAND FOR
THOSE UNITS AND THIS IS HARD,
RIGHT, BECAUSE WE'RE WRESTLING
WITH OUR COMMUNITY EXPERIENCE
OF THE HOUSING THAT WE SEE.
WE SEE STUDENT HOUSING AND WE
SEE HIGH END CONDOMINIUMS BEING
DEVELOPED AND I WOULD I WOULD
PUT FORTH THAT BUILDING.
MORE OF BOTH OF THOSE WILL HELP
WITH OUR AFFORDABILITY AND
IT'LL HELP EXPAND THE DIVERSITY
HOUSING TYPES ACROSS OUR
COMMUNITY BECAUSE THOSE ARE THE
FIRST THINGS RIGHT NOW THAT ARE
PENCILING OUT AND WHAT STEPS
CAN WE DO TO MAKE MORE OF THOSE
PENCIL OUT TO HELP FILL THOSE
MARKET NEEDS AND OPEN UP SPACE
FOR OTHER TYPES HOUSING AS
WELL.
AND SO I I DON'T I AM RELUCTANT
TO DISMISS STUDENT HOUSING AS
NOT BEING DEVELOPED.
THAT'S PART OF OUR HOUSING
INVENTORY CHALLENGES RIGHT NOW.
THE THE CARDS ARE STACKED
AGAINST EVERY OTHER PROJECT
TYPE.
I DON'T THINK THOSE ARE
INHERENTLY BAD THOUGH.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR.
I DON'T THINK YOU'RE SAYING
THAT EITHER.
BUT THAT IS PART THAT IS PART
OF INCREASING HOUSING SUPPLY IN
THIS COMMUNITY TO HELP ACROSS
THE BOARD.
IT'S NOT TRYING TO STOP THAT
DEVELOPMENT.
IT'S TRYING TO HOW CAN WE OPEN
UP THIS MARKET THROUGH WHAT
SMALL WAYS CAN WE ADDRESS OUR
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK SO THAT
MORE CAN HAPPEN ACROSS ALL
PRICE
OF SARAH YOU HAD YOUR
HAND UP FIRST AND I WAS JUST
GOING TO SAY MAYBE THIS IS
TAKING US TO OUR NEXT LINE.
I THINK WE AT THIS TABLE MIGHT
SEE HOUSING AND HOUSING ALONE
AS HELPFUL.
MAYBE NOT ALL OF US DO BUT I
HOPE THAT THE PEOPLE THAT WE'RE
TALKING TO I WANT A QUESTION
THAT WOULD BECAUSE I MEAN WE
CERTAINLY HAVE PEOPLE THAT COME
BEFORE US THAT WE PICK UP FROM
CERTAIN GROUPS WHERE IT'S NOT
HOUSING IN AND OF ITSELF IS A
GOOD HOUSING SO LONG AS IT HAS
THESE CHARACTERISTICS AND
SUSTAINABILITY IS ONE OF THEM
THAT WE REGULARLY HERE AND I
THINK THAT WE NEED TO HAVE THAT
CONVERSATION BEFORE WE INCREASE
THAT THEY ARE WE NEED TO HEAR
HOW OTHERS FEEL ABOUT THAT.
AND SO I I THINK THAT THAT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT TO GET OUT
OF THIS AND I'LL GO TO THE NEXT
I'M REALLY GLAD THAT THE ENERGY
COMMISSION, FOR EXAMPLE, IS ON
THAT LIST AND THAT THERE'S A
BUNCH OF HOUSING FOLKS
COMMISSION FOLKS HOUSING THAT
LIST.
OK, SO IS EVERYBODY GOOD WITH
GOING TO THAT LIST
OF STAKEHOLDERS AND TALKING
ABOUT THAT?
YEAH OK GREAT.
OH NO.
OK SO WE HAVE IN OUR SCOPE UP
TO EIGHT GROUPS LISTED THEM
HERE.
IT COULD BE A COMBINATION OR IF
YOU FEEL THAT ONE IT MIGHT BE
IT MIGHT BE WORTHWHILE TO TALK
TO ONE DEVELOPERS THEN ONE OR
TWO OF THOSE OTHERS FALL OFF
THE LIST.
BUT IF AGAIN I THINK WE'LL GO
THIS WAY THIS TIME SO WE'LL
START WITH COMMISSIONER LEE
ABOUT WHO WE SHOULD BE TALKING
TO AND WE DO NEED RESOLUTION ON
WHICH EIGHT BEFORE WE WALK OUT
OF HERE TONIGHT I'M SURE I
THOUGHT CIVIL ENGINEERS,
ARCHITECTS THAT'S BROUGHT THE
MOST NUMBER OF PETITIONS IN
FRONT OF US MIGHT BE USEFUL TO
TALK WITH AS THEY KIND
OF UNDERSTAND BOTH THE
CONSTRAINTS AND KIND OF THE
NUANCES OF UTILITIES, TRAFFIC
AND EVERYTHING ELSE IS TO TALK
WITH SOMEBODY WHO HAS FREQUENCY
IN PETITIONS THAT THEY BRING
FORWARD.
I ALSO DON'T FEEL PETITIONERS,
PEOPLE WHO ACTUALLY BROUGHT
PETITIONS FORWARD AND IT NEVER
GOT OFF THE GROUND.
THAT IS ALSO KIND
OF INTERESTING TO HEAR THEIR
PERSPECTIVE.
I REALLY APPRECIATE WHEN DOUG
SALVY CAME AND TOLD US TO OUR
FACE THIS IS HOW I SEE THAT
PROCESS THAT IS VALUABLE
FEEDBACK FOR US SO THAT SIGEL
CALLACHOR SPACES ABOUT.
BUT I THINK BASICALLY IT'S WHAT
I'M SAYING MAYBE IT'S
WORTHWHILE TO SEE WHO'S BROUGHT
THE FREQUENCY OF PETITIONS AND
CHATTING WITH THEM.
SO I GUESS I KIND OF FOCUSES ON
LOCAL DEVELOPERS, CIVIL
ENGINEERING ARCHITECTS.
I DO THINK THE HOUSING
COMMISSION IS OBVIOUSLY
IMPERATIVE AS WELL AS THE
ENERGY COMMISSION.
THE QUESTION IS ALSO ONE
OF THESE MAYBE THAT'S NOT
NECESSARILY THE RIGHT QUESTION
BUT THE OTHER THING THAT I
MIGHT ACTUALLY RECOMMEND AS FAR
AS WITHIN THE LOCAL DEVELOPERS
IS THERE'S A GROUP CALLED S.G.
I THINK AND I THINK THEY CALL
THEMSELVES SMART GROWTH IN ANN
ARBOR.
SO THEY'RE JUST REAL ESTATE
LEADERS THROUGHOUT THE
COMMUNITY SO MIGHT KIND
OF KNOCK OUT FIVE, TEN
INDIVIDUAL FIRMS IF YOU JUST
TALK THAT ONE GROUP OR SO.
BUT I FEEL PETITIONER CIVIL
ENGINEERING ARCHITECTS THAT THE
MOST AMOUNT OF FREQUENCY AND
FAMILIARITY WITH OUR PROCESSES
AND AND BOTH LOCAL AND NATIONAL
FOLKS THAT HAVE BROUGHT THINGS
HERE AND THE NATIONAL CAN GIVE
GUIDANCE ON HOW WE MATCH
RELATIVE TO OTHER COMMUNITIES
THAT HAVE TRIED TO USE
LABORER'S OF PREMIUMS.
SO I THINK IT'S NOT ONLY
IMPORTANT TO HAVE THOSE WITH
LOCAL FLAVOR BUT ALSO THE
NATIONAL PURVIEW.
SO THAT'S THANK YOU.
I LOVE THAT I SECOND THAT WE
DEFINITELY DO SEE A LOT OF THE
SAME LIKE ENGINEERING FIRMS AND
ARCHITECTS COME BEFORE US.
THEY'RE OFTEN THE ONES
PRESENTING THINGS AND TALKING
TO US ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY
PRIMARILY ARCHITECTS.
I THINK YOU KNOW THAT LOCAL
DEVELOPERS CATEGORY COULD MAYBE
NOT JUST BE DEVELOPERS WOULD BE
SORT OF LIKE PROFESSIONAL
CATEGORY.
I THIS IS MY OWN IGNORANCE I
GUESS BETWEEN LIKE THE HOUSING
ALLIANCE HOUSING HUMAN SERVICES
ADVISORY BOARD, HOUSING
COMMISSION.
I JUST DON'T KNOW ENOUGH ABOUT
THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THOSE
THREE LIKE MAYBE WE DO NEED ALL
THREE OF THEM.
I JUST DON'T KNOW LIKE I DON'T
KNOW IF IT'S POSSIBLE IF WE
COME UP WITH A DIFFERENT I
DON'T KNOW IF IT'S LIKE
SWAPPING ONE OF THOSE OUT MAKES
SENSE.
I JUST I DON'T KNOW BUT I'M
WONDERING LIKE IF IT LIKE
AVALON IS A NONPROFIT HOUSING
DEVELOPER AND IF A NONPROFIT
HOUSING DEVELOPER NONPROFIT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IT WOULD
MAKE SENSE TO TALK TO.
OK, THANK YOU
.
I'M GOING TO SECOND WHAT WAS
ALREADY SAID.
I DON'T THINK I HAVE ANYTHING
ELSE TO ADD THINGS LIKE MY ONLY
SIMILARLY TO TO COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS.
THE ONLY THING IS WHETHER THE
CITIZEN'S ADVISORY COUNCIL
OF THE DDA AND THE DDA I MEAN I
KNOW WHAT THIS IS ABOUT
DOWNTOWN SO YOU'RE TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT KIND OF WE USED TO
HAVE REPRESENTATIVES THEM COME
FORWARD TO US QUITE A BIT AND
WE JUST HAVEN'T HAD THAT AND SO
I DON'T KNOW IF THEY'RE STILL
ACTIVELY MEETING AND THINGS
LIKE THAT.
ARE THEY?
YEAH, THEY DID.
I MEAN RAY USED TO BE A REGULAR
FIXTURE HERE AND AND WE JUST
DON'T HEAR FROM THEM SINCE
COVID BASICALLY IT SEEMS SO SO
THE FEELING IS MAYBE THEY CAN
BE COMBINED POSSIBLY YEAH.
OK I AGREE I DON'T KNOW THAT I
DON'T KNOW WHICH OF THE HOUSING
GROUPS IS THE APPROPRIATE AND I
WOULDN'T SAY THAT WE ONLY HAVE
ONE I WAS ACTUALLY THINKING
LIKE DO WE I DON'T THINK THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION IS THE
RIGHT THING.
I THINK IT IS THIS IS AN ENERGY
COMMISSION THING.
BUT I WAS THINKING IF THERE'S
SOMETHING SIMILAR LIKE A COUPLE
OF DIFFERENT LABORS OF KIND
OF ENVIRONMENT BUT THREE MIGHT
BE TOO MANY ON THAT PARTICULAR
BUT I DEFER TO OTHERS.
SO I DID WANT TO SUGGEST MAYBE
IF THE HOUSING ALLIANCE IN
HOUSING AND HUMAN SERVICES
ADVISORY BOARD COULD BE BROUGHT
TOGETHER I THINK HOUSING
COMMISSION IS BOTH A DEVELOPER
AND IT DOES SO MANY THINGS THAT
I WOULD KEEP.
IT SEEMS TO ME LIKE WE DOUBLED
THE LOCAL DEVELOPER CATEGORY
BECAUSE OF THE THINGS THAT WERE
PUT INTO IT WHICH I THINK WAS
VALUABLE SO WE DO NEED TO TAKE
SOME THINGS OFF.
I AGREE ABOUT COLLAPSING S.A.C.
TO THE DDA WITH THE D.A. I
THINK THAT WOULD BE FINE THE
ONLY SO I'VE OFFERED TWO WAYS
OF COLLAPSING ONE WAY
OF EXPANDING THE OTHER THING
THAT'S NOT HERE THAT MIGHT BE
IMPORTANT IS THE RENTERS
COMMISSION BUT I WOULD TAKE
ADVICE FROM STAFF ON THAT ONE
BECAUSE THEY ARE RELATIVELY NEW
NOW.
THEY REPRESENT A GROUP THAT IS
FIFTY PERCENT OF THE CITY AND
IS A VERY INTERNALLY DIVERSE
GROUP CERTAINLY AND THESE NEEDS
ARE NOT NECESSARILY MET BUT
THERE ARE NEW SO I DON'T KNOW
HOW WELL THEY'VE GELLED AS A
DELIBERATIVE BODY AND SO IT'S
ALL THERE.
IT'S IMPORTANT THEY'RE
REPRESENTATIONS BUT I MEAN YOU
JUST LIKE CITY COUNCIL.
I MEAN I REALLY THINK YOU COULD
HAVE THE CHANCE TO GIVE INPUT
AND YOU WANT TO TALK TO
STAKEHOLDERS.
THERE AREN'T A LOT OF CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO PAY ENOUGH
ATTENTION TO ACTUAL DEGREE
OF DEVELOPMENT.
SO I WAS GLAD TO SEE IT NOT I
THOUGHT THAT WAS GOING TO LIGHT
PEOPLE ON FIRE AS WE'VE HEARD.
SO I GUESS I'D ALSO LIKE TO
HEAR FROM PROFESSIONAL GROUPS
THAT REPRESENT A MORE DIVERSE
GROUP THAT HAVEN'T BEEN
INCLUDED
IN OUR COMMENTS.
I'M GOING TO SUGGEST THE
ORGANIZATION LIKE THE URBAN
LEAGUE OF SOUTHEAST MICHIGAN,
MICHIGAN MINORITY CONTRACTORS
ASSOCIATION, CAPITAL IMPACT
PARTNERS EXECUTIVE DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION CEO AND THE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION OF MICHIGAN
DEVELOPERS THAT ARE A MEMBER
OF THAT CONSORTIUM WOULD BE
GOOD TO WEIGH IN.
A LOT OF THEM ARE NONPROFIT
COMMUNITY GROUPS THAT WORK IN
COMMUNITIES DIRECTLY ADJACENT
TO ANN ARBOR.
I WOULD BE INTERESTING TO KNOW
WHY THEY'RE NOT MORE PEOPLE ARE
GETTING A PIECE OF THE
DEVELOPMENT DOWNTOWN AND I
THINK THAT I JUST WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT ALONG WITH
STAKEHOLDERS THAT HAVE BEEN
PETITIONERS THAT PEOPLE THAT
HAVE BEEN EXCLUDED FROM BEING
PETITIONERS WOULD BE REALLY
USEFUL TO HEAR FROM AND I THINK
THEY MIGHT BE HAVE SOME INSIGHT
TO THE MARKET DEMAND AND THINGS
THAT WE MIGHT BE OVERLOOKING.
SO I'D REALLY LIKE TO SEE THOSE
ASSOCIATIONS OR SOME
COMBINATION OF PROFESSIONALS IN
THAT SECTION SO A QUESTION AND
THEN AND THEN ANSWER THE IS THE
GOAL OF THESE STAKEHOLDERS
PEOPLE WHO BECOME BEFORE
PLANNING?
YES.
AND KNOW THE GOAL OF THE
STAKEHOLDERS IS TO YES.
TO TALK TO THE DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY OR PEOPLE WHO
BRINGING PETITIONS.
BUT I THINK ALSO TO TALK TO
OTHER STAKEHOLDERS WHO SHARE
THE SAME GOALS AND HAVE IDEAS
ABOUT HOW TO IMPLEMENT AND
WHETHER THE POLICY OPTIONS
YOU'RE LOOKING AT WOULD BE
HELPFUL TO THEM AS THEY GO
FORWARD.
SO NOT ONLY TALKING TO
APPLICANTS BUT PARTNERS BECAUSE
I THINK THE THE NATURE OF THE
QUESTION FOR ME IS THEN I AS I
LOOK AT THE LIST THAT YOU HAVE
MY SCREEN IS FLICKERING.
IF YOU'RE WONDERING WHY I'M
TURNING THE PEOPLE THAT I SEE
MISSING ARE THE PEOPLE WHO
AREN'T DOWNTOWN.
SO THOSE ARE THE RENTERS.
THOSE ARE THE PEOPLE WHO WANT
TO LIVE HERE BUT CAN'T AND I I
DON'T KNOW THAT THEY BELONG TO
AN ASSOCIATION THAT YOU CAN
CONTACT TO REACH THEM.
SO FOR THE NATIONAL HOUSING
ALLOWANCE ALLIANCE THAT GETS
EVERYBODY WHO IS DOING
SUPPORTIVE AND AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN THE COUNTY.
SO I BELONG TO COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT QUESTION WOULD BE
SUBSUMED INSIDE THE HOUSE WHILE
A LION'S DEN ON THE HOUSING AND
HUMAN SERVICES BOARD YOU'RE
GOING TO GET A CROSS-SECTION
OF LIBERALS EITHER RENT OR OWN
BUT ARE AWARE OF THE HOUSING
NEEDS AND HOW THE AVAILABILITY
OR THE LACK THEREOF IMPACT AND
THEN TO SOME COMMISSIONER
EITHER MIDDLE'S OR VICIOUS
COMMENT PROBABLY DISH ON THE
RENTERS.
IT WOULD BE GREAT TO HEAR FROM
THEM BUT IF IT'S AROUND HOW WE
CHANGE OUR POLICIES TO PERMIT
MORE HOUSING, I DON'T KNOW IS
THAT A GOOD USE OF THEIR TIME?
SO THAT'S WHY I WAS ASKING A
QUESTION OF WHO THE GOAL IS
BECAUSE HAVING THE RENTERS
COMMISSION COME IN I TELL YOU
EVERYTHING ABOUT EVERYTHING BUT
IT MAY NOT HELP US FIGURE OUT
WHAT WE NEED TO CHANGE IN THE
PLANNING.
SO IF THE GOAL ARE THE
PROFESSIONAL CLASS OF FOLKS WHO
WOULD EITHER COME TO THE TABLE
OR BE ADJACENT TO THE TABLE,
THEN I THINK AS COMMISSIONER
LEE ORIGINALLY SAID, HEARING
FROM PETITIONERS WHO HAD THEIR
PETITIONS REJECTED HEARING FROM
DEVELOPERS WHO BECAUSE OF HOW
DIFFICULT OUR PROCESS IS FOR
PERMITTING OR BUILDING DECIDED
NOT TO I WOULD LOVE TO TO SORT
OF HEAR FROM THEM AND EVEN THE
EARLIER PETITIONER I WAS GOING
TO ASK LIKE WHY YOU KEEP
DEVELOPING IN ANN ARBOR.
IT'S THE SAME KIND ONEROUS AND
DIFFICULT AND YOU'VE BEEN
AROUND HERE THIS TABLE FOR SIX
YEARS.
WHY ARE YOU BACK HERE AGAIN?
AND I THINK IT WAS TO MR.
LEONARD'S COMMENT STUDENT
HOUSING OR ADJACENT STUDENT
HOUSING IS WHAT PENCIL'S RIGHT
NOW.
AND SO THAT'S WHY WE'RE GETTING
A LOT OF THOSE OR THE HIGH END
MILLION DOLLAR CONDOS BECAUSE
THEY WORK SO SO IT'S A MIXED
BAG FOR ME BUT IF YOU IF YOU
GIVE ME MORE CLARITY ABOUT LIKE
I WANT TO TALK TO THE PEOPLE
WHO ARE GOING TO BE IMPACTED BY
THE DECISION THAT WE MAKE THAT
MIGHT CHANGE IT.
MY RECOMMENDATION AND THEN MY
QUESTION BACK TO YOU IS WE'RE
ACTING AS YOUR PROXY TO GO OUT
AND TALK TO STAKEHOLDERS.
SO WHAT INFORMATION DO YOU NEED
TO HEAR FROM WHICH STAKEHOLDERS
IN ORDER TO BE BETTER PREPARED
TO MAKE DECISIONS ABOUT THIS
POLICY CHANGE?
SO AGAIN, IF IF I THINK MY
ANSWER IS IS OUR GOAL TO BUILD
MORE HOUSING BECAUSE IF OUR
GOAL IS TO BUILD MORE HOUSING
THEN I WANT TO TALK TO THE
PEOPLE WHO BUILD HOUSING.
OK, BUT I'M HEARING A MIXED BAG
FROM THE TABLE.
YOU KNOW YOU HAVE THE ENERGY
COMMISSION HERE BECAUSE
OF SUSTAINABILITY BECAUSE
THAT'S A SUBGOAL YOU HAVE ALL
OF THE THE HOUSING SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES FOLKS BECAUSE
AFFORDABILITY IS SUBGOAL.
YOU HAVE PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN THE
DENHA BECAUSE THE D.A. IS SORT
OF THE THE THE UMBRELLA FOR
THIS AREA.
SO YOU WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE HEARING FROM THEM SO THAT
THAT'S TWO OR THREE SORT
OF GROUPS AND THEN EVERYONE
ELSE WHO BUILDS BECAUSE THE
HOUSING COMMISSION BUILDS THE
WATCHDOG HOUSING ALLOWANCE
ALLIANCE MEMBERS, THEY BUILD I
THINK IT WOULD BE RELIGIOUS
GROUPS AS WELL BECAUSE THEY'RE
BUILDING AND THEY'RE BUILDING
IN THE DOWNTOWN.
WE JUST HAD THE TREASURER MARK
IS THAT JUST CHANGED HANDS JUST
CHANGED HANDS AND YOU'RE GOING
TO HAVE A CHURCH THAT BUILDS IN
TERRYTOWN SO SO LIKE WHERE I
WOULD JUST SAY WE WANT TO TALK
TO AS MANY BUILDERS WHO ARE
INTERESTED IN THE DOWNTOWN AS
IS POSSIBLE.
BUT AGAIN, I THINK IT CHANGES
DEPENDING ON WHAT IS OUR ACTUAL
GOAL.
OK, SO TO SUMMARIZE WHAT I
THINK I HAVE DOWN TO A NINE
GROUPS IS NUMBER ONE TAKE CITY
COUNCIL OFF THE LIST COMBINE
THE D.A. INSISTED ADVISORY
COUNCIL TO ONE GROUP SO THAT'S
ONE RATIONAL HOUSING ALLIANCE
TO HOUSING AND HUMAN SERVICES
ADVISORY BOARD IS A DIFFERENT
ONE.
THREE LOCAL DEVELOPERS INCLUDED
IN THAT IS ALSO CIVIL ENGINEERS
AND ARCHITECTS HOUSING
COMMISSION, ENERGY COMMISSION,
THE RENTERS COMMISSION AND THEN
AS THE EIGHT TO THINK THE THE
FAILED PETITIONERS IS REALLY
INTERESTING.
MAYBE THAT CAN BE PART OF THE
DEVELOPERS GROUP BUT RAY, CAN
CAN YOU FORGET ABOUT THE PEOPLE
AT HOME AND TAKE COMMISSIONER
RICH'S POINT THAT MAYBE NOT THE
RENTERS COMMISSION?
I DON'T KNOW DO OTHERS HOW DID
OTHERS RESPOND TO THAT?
GOOD POINT.
AND I THINK IN TERMS OF THE
FAILED THE ONES THAT DIDN'T
WORK, I'M GOING TO LEAVE IT UP
TO STAFF BECAUSE I'M SURE YOU
ALL KNOW THERE'S PEOPLE THAT
COME THROUGH.
THERE'S LIKE YOU KNOW, THAT WAS
A STUPID IDEA THAT'S NEVER
QUITE RIGHT.
AND THEN THERE'S THE PEOPLE ARE
LIKE WOW, THAT WAS A GREAT
PROJECT AND DIDN'T WORK BECAUSE
OF SOME WHATEVER IT IS AND I'M
SURE YOU ALL HAVE THOSE IN YOUR
POCKET OF THINGS THAT HAVE
HAPPENED.
YEAH, I WAS GOING TO SUGGEST WE
CAN JUST TRY TO IDENTIFY A
COUPLE OF THOSE EXAMPLES AS
PART OF THAT DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY PROBABLY MAYBE SOME
THAT JUST NEVER PROCEEDED
FINGERS AND SOME THAT WERE
APPROVED AND NEVER GOT BUILT
RIGHT.
I JUST WANTED TO THROW OUT
THERE TO THAT I GUESS I WOULD
STAKEHOLDERS TO THAT HAVE A
BREADTH OF EXPERIENCE IN POLICY
DEVELOPMENT AND FROM AN EQUITY
IMPACT LENS AND I JUST SEE
MYSELF OUT THERE REALLY QUICK
THAT LIKE FOR EXAMPLE I THINK
THERE IS TENDENCY TO OVERLOOK
EXPERIENCE WITH WITH THIS IN
OTHER AREAS AND DEVELOPERS THAT
THERE ARE DEVELOPERS THAT
WANTED TO COME HERE AND YOU
KNOW, LIKE THE NUMBER AND GOAL
LISTED ON SYTEMS AGENDA IS
EXTEND ACCESSIBLE, AFFORDABLE
QUALITY HOUSING OPTIONS FOR ALL
MICHIGAN RESIDENTS.
THEIR SECOND ONE IS STRENGTHEN
PROGRAMS THAT PROMOTE INCLUSION
AND THEN LOCALLY.
YEAH.
SO I JUST THINK THAT THERE'S A
LOT OF OVERLAP GOALS THERE AND
THAT THE STAKEHOLDERS GOING TO
THEM AND SAYING WHAT POLICY
RECOMMENDATIONS HAVE WORKED,
WHAT WHAT EXCLUSION WOULD BE IF
THEY WERE ACTUALLY THE ONE I
WAS GOING TO MENTION NINTH AND
COME IN.
SO I THINK IF FOLKS FEEL LIKE
THE RENTERS COMMISSION MAYBE WE
TAKE THAT OFF THE TABLE AND
TALK TO SEE THEM AND INSTEAD
BECAUSE THEY HAVE THEY TO HAVE
A BETTER POLICY ACROSS THE
STATE AND KNOW THAT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
CONTEXT WITHIN PLANNING AND
ZONING LAWS IN MICHIGAN AND
WHAT OTHER COMMUNITIES HAVE
DONE I'LL MAKE IT QUICK ON THE
PROFESSIONAL ADVISORY SIDE
MAYBE ULLI OR US GBC OR
SOMETHING ALONG THOSE LINES.
BUT IF YOU FEEL LIKE YOU GOT
COVERED ON THE PROFESSIONAL
ADVISORY SIDE, THAT'S FINE.
THE OTHER ONE I WAS GOING TO
THROW OUT THERE IS SOME
SOMETHING LIKE THE MAIN STREET
ASSOCIATION IN OR THE STATE
STREET ASSOCIATION WHILE
THEY'RE NOT NECESSARILY THE
ONES USING PREMIUM LEVERS.
RIGHT.
BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT THE
BUILDERS BUT THEY ARE THE
AGGREGATE BUSINESS OWNERS AND
OPERATORS AND THE ONES THAT
KIND OF GIVE VITALIY TO THE
DENHA AND THEY MAKE THEIR
LIVING THERE SO THEY'RE BETTER
VALUE SETS AND VOICE I THINK IS
ALSO A HELPFUL BALANCE SO THAT
WE'RE NOT JUST HEARING FROM THE
PEOPLE THAT HAVE TO USE
PREMIUMS BUT RATHER THE FOLKS
THAT MAY EITHER BENEFIT OR HAVE
HAVE DIRECT KIND OF FEEDBACK AS
TO WHAT THEY'D LIKE TO SEE MEAN
HOUSING WHAT THEY WANT IS
BETTER TRANSPORTATION OF GOODS
WHAT THEY WANT.
RIGHT.
I MEAN YOU PROBABLY BUT THE
MAIN STREET ASSOCIATION STATE
STREET ASSOCIATION MIGHT BE
HELPFUL TO TALK ABOUT THROWING
THAT OUT FOR CONSIDERATION.
WELL, LET'S TAKE A STEP BACK
AND SEE MAYBE WHETHER THOSE
THINGS CAN BE COMBINED WITH THE
DEA AND HAVE A LARGER GROUP OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
ALL RIGHT.
UM, WELL, THE NEXT STEP IS FOR
US TO GO OFF AND CONSULT WITH
THESE STAKEHOLDERS WORKING WITH
YOUR STAFF AND THEN COMING BACK
TO YOU SO I WOULD EXPECT US
PROBABLY SOMETIME IN JULY ISH
ISH.
AND I WANT TO THANK YOU TONIGHT
FOR THE DISCUSSION AND ALL
OF YOUR TIME REALLY APPRECIATE
IT.
THANKS
CUSTOMERS FIRST
HERE.
OK, LET'S MOVE ON TO ITEM
NUMBER TEN WHICH IS PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THERE'S OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE
TO SPEAK FOR THREE MINUTES IF
YOU WANT TO SINCE WE LIKELY
DON'T HAVE PEOPLE IN THE ROOM
THAT ARE GOING TO BE SPEAKING.
I PRESUME THAT NO THE SMALL
MISS MILLS DOES NOT WANT TO GET
UP AND CHAIR WELL SHE NO THERE
THERE'S ANOTHER ONE IS STILL
THERE THAT CALLING IN AND FOR
PHONE ACCESS EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN IN A MEETING I'D NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TO SIX PLEASE PRESS
STAR SIX CITY STAFF WILL CALL
ON YOU PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS FOR YOUR THREE
MINUTE PERIOD THERE.
ANYBODY VIRTUALLY NO HANDS ARE
RAISED.
OK THEN WE WILL MOVE ON TO
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
NOTHING NOTHING HIGHLY
ADJOURNMENT MOTION TO ADJOURN
MR. ABRAMS SECONDED BY MR.
WHITE WE ARE ADJOURNED